docs/concepts/components/core.md, before:

---
slug: core
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Core
---

# Resoto Core

[Resoto Core (`resotocore`)](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/tree/main/resotocore) is the graph persistence and search backend of Resoto. It maintains the graph of resources and provides APIs to update and access them.

Within Resoto Core, there are workflows consisting of steps that result in actions like `collect`, `cleanup` or `generate_metrics`. These actions are received by components like [Resoto Worker](./worker.md) and [Resoto Metrics](./metrics.md).

## API

The [Resoto Core API](../../reference/api.md) is exposed at `http://<resoto-address>:8900/api-doc`. You can also access it at [`https://resoto.com/docs/reference/api`](../../reference/api.md).

Resoto Core has two [API](../../reference/api.md) endpoints to connect to for CLI purposes:

1. [`/cli/evaluate`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1evaluate/post)
2. [`/cli/execute`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1execute/post)

The [`/cli/evaluate`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1evaluate/post) functinality is used internally on every [`/cli/execute`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1execute/post) before the command executes.

Below is a simulation of sending a [Resoto Shell](./shell.md) [search](../search/index.md) to the [API](../../reference/api.md).

We will evaluate the search before executing it for demonstration. We also introduce a search with a typo to show the response if not successful.

### Evaluate

```bash title="Correct"
> echo 'search is("resource") limit 1' | http :8900/cli/evaluate
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 200 OK
​Content-Length: 47
​Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:13:08 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​[
​    {
​        "execute_query": "is(\"resource\") limit 1"
​    }
​]
// highlight-end
```

```bash title="Typo"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit1' | http :8900/cli/evaluate
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
​Content-Length: 151
​Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:13:33 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​Error: ParseError
​Message: expected one of '!=', '!~', '<', '<=', '=', '==', '=~', '>', '>=', '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_]*', '`', 'in', 'not in', '~' at 0:21
// highlight-end
```

## Execute

```bash title="Correct"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit 1' | http :8900/cli/execute
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 200 OK
​Content-Type: application/json
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:08:10 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0
​Transfer-Encoding: chunked

​[
​    {
​        "id": "06ee67f7c54124c019b80a7f53fa59b231b374fe61f94b91e0c26729440d095c",
​        "kinds": [
​            "base_cloud",
​            "cloud",
​            "resource"
​        ],
​        "metadata": {
​            "python_type": "resoto.baseresources.Cloud"
​        },
​        "reported": {
​            "ctime": "2021-09-25T23:49:38Z",
​            "id": "gcp",
​            "kind": "cloud",
​            "name": "gcp",
​            "tags": {}
​        },
​        "revision": "_d_7eKMa---",
​        "type": "node"
​    }
​]
// highlight-end
```

```bash title="Typo"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit1' | http :8900/cli/execute
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
​Content-Length: 151
​Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:26:54 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​Error: ParseError
​Message: expected one of '!=', '!~', '<', '<=', '=', '==', '=~', '>', '>=', '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_]*', '`', 'in', 'not in', '~' at 0:21
// highlight-end
```

# More API Endpoints

Resoto Core is the central hub for everything Resoto does. You can explore additional API endpoints at `http://<resoto-address>:8900/api-doc` or [`https://resoto.com/docs/reference/api`](../../reference/api.md).

Commit message:

docs(docs): compose file relies on Prometheus config from the repo (#136)
* docs(docs): compose file relies on Prometheus config from the repo

* docs(docs): note about old compose

* docs(docs): add AWS/GCP/DO config examples

* docs(docs): fix tab names

* fix(docs): typo

* fix(docs): typo

* docs(docs): link override

* docs(docs): add info on how to do a first collect

* docs(docs): move config

* fix(docs): remove redundant text

* docs(docs): add requirements

* docs(docs): link to config section

* docs(docs): link worker

* docs(docs): checkout 2.0

* docs(docs): add link to config to start page

* docs(docs): add DigitalOcean link to start page

* fix(docs): plural

* fix(docs): title

* docs(docs): more info

* docs: metadata

* fix(docs): plugins

* docs(docs): add Protector plugin info

* fix(docs): update link

* docs(docs): remove useless hello world

* docs(docs): link https instead of http by default

* docs(docs): use latest release tag

* docs(docs): remove use of fat image

* docs(docs): update telemetry docs for use of config option instead of cli flag

* docs(docs): more AWS details

* docs(docs): add curl method

* docs(docs): add docker compose requirement

* docs(docs): less bla

* docs(docs): many-core

* docs(docs): add latest info

* docs(docs): button info

* docs(docs): symbol update

* docs(docs): clarify compose

docs/concepts/components/core.md, after:

---
slug: core
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Core
---

# Resoto Core

[Resoto Core (`resotocore`)](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/tree/main/resotocore) is the graph persistence and search backend of Resoto. It maintains the graph of resources and provides APIs to update and access them.

Within Resoto Core, there are workflows consisting of steps that result in actions like `collect`, `cleanup` or `generate_metrics`. These actions are received by components like [Resoto Worker](./worker.md) and [Resoto Metrics](./metrics.md).

```bash title="Resoto Core Docker image"
somecr.io/someengineering/resotocore:{{latestRelease}}
```

## API

The [Resoto Core API](../../reference/api.md) is exposed at `https://<resoto-address>:8900/api-doc`. You can also access it at [`https://resoto.com/docs/reference/api`](../../reference/api.md).

Resoto Core has two [API](../../reference/api.md) endpoints to connect to for CLI purposes:

1. [`/cli/evaluate`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1evaluate/post)
2. [`/cli/execute`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1execute/post)

The [`/cli/evaluate`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1evaluate/post) functinality is used internally on every [`/cli/execute`](../../reference/api.md#tag/cli/paths/~1cli~1execute/post) before the command executes.

Below is a simulation of sending a [Resoto Shell](./shell.md) [search](../search/index.md) to the [API](../../reference/api.md).

We will evaluate the search before executing it for demonstration. We also introduce a search with a typo to show the response if not successful.

### Evaluate

```bash title="Correct"
> echo 'search is("resource") limit 1' | http :8900/cli/evaluate
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 200 OK
​Content-Length: 47
​Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:13:08 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​[
​    {
​        "execute_query": "is(\"resource\") limit 1"
​    }
​]
// highlight-end
```

```bash title="Typo"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit1' | http :8900/cli/evaluate
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
​Content-Length: 151
​Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:13:33 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​Error: ParseError
​Message: expected one of '!=', '!~', '<', '<=', '=', '==', '=~', '>', '>=', '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_]*', '`', 'in', 'not in', '~' at 0:21
// highlight-end
```

## Execute

```bash title="Correct"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit 1' | http :8900/cli/execute
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 200 OK
​Content-Type: application/json
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:08:10 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0
​Transfer-Encoding: chunked

​[
​    {
​        "id": "06ee67f7c54124c019b80a7f53fa59b231b374fe61f94b91e0c26729440d095c",
​        "kinds": [
​            "base_cloud",
​            "cloud",
​            "resource"
​        ],
​        "metadata": {
​            "python_type": "resoto.baseresources.Cloud"
​        },
​        "reported": {
​            "ctime": "2021-09-25T23:49:38Z",
​            "id": "gcp",
​            "kind": "cloud",
​            "name": "gcp",
​            "tags": {}
​        },
​        "revision": "_d_7eKMa---",
​        "type": "node"
​    }
​]
// highlight-end
```

```bash title="Typo"
> echo 'graph=resoto search is("resource") limit1' | http :8900/cli/execute
// highlight-start
​HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
​Content-Length: 151
​Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
​Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2021 15:26:54 GMT
​Server: Python/3.9 aiohttp/3.7.4.post0

​Error: ParseError
​Message: expected one of '!=', '!~', '<', '<=', '=', '==', '=~', '>', '>=', '[A-Za-z][A-Za-z0-9_]*', '`', 'in', 'not in', '~' at 0:21
// highlight-end
```

# More API Endpoints

Resoto Core is the central hub for everything Resoto does. You can explore additional API endpoints at `https://<resoto-address>:8900/api-doc` or [`https://resoto.com/docs/reference/api`](../../reference/api.md).
