docs/reference/data-models/aws.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Amazon Web Services
---

# Amazon Web Services Resources

## `aws_account`

![aws_account](./img/aws/aws_account.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_account`:**

![aws_account](./img/aws/aws_account_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb`

![aws_alb](./img/aws/aws_alb.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb`:**

![aws_alb](./img/aws/aws_alb_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb_quota`

![aws_alb_quota](./img/aws/aws_alb_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb_quota`:**

![aws_alb_quota](./img/aws/aws_alb_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb_target_group`

![aws_alb_target_group](./img/aws/aws_alb_target_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb_target_group`:**

![aws_alb_target_group](./img/aws/aws_alb_target_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_autoscaling_group`

![aws_autoscaling_group](./img/aws/aws_autoscaling_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_autoscaling_group`:**

![aws_autoscaling_group](./img/aws/aws_autoscaling_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudformation_stack`

![aws_cloudformation_stack](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudformation_stack`:**

![aws_cloudformation_stack](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudformation_stack_set`

![aws_cloudformation_stack_set](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudformation_stack_set`:**

![aws_cloudformation_stack_set](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_set_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudwatch_alarm`

![aws_cloudwatch_alarm](./img/aws/aws_cloudwatch_alarm.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudwatch_alarm`:**

![aws_cloudwatch_alarm](./img/aws/aws_cloudwatch_alarm_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_elastic_ip`

![aws_ec2_elastic_ip](./img/aws/aws_ec2_elastic_ip.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_elastic_ip`:**

![aws_ec2_elastic_ip](./img/aws/aws_ec2_elastic_ip_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance`

![aws_ec2_instance](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance`:**

![aws_ec2_instance](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance_quota`

![aws_ec2_instance_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance_quota`:**

![aws_ec2_instance_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance_type`

![aws_ec2_instance_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance_type`:**

![aws_ec2_instance_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_type_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_internet_gateway`

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_internet_gateway`:**

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota`

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota`:**

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_keypair`

![aws_ec2_keypair](./img/aws/aws_ec2_keypair.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_keypair`:**

![aws_ec2_keypair](./img/aws/aws_ec2_keypair_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_nat_gateway`

![aws_ec2_nat_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_nat_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_nat_gateway`:**

![aws_ec2_nat_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_nat_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_network_acl`

![aws_ec2_network_acl](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_acl.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_network_acl`:**

![aws_ec2_network_acl](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_acl_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_network_interface`

![aws_ec2_network_interface](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_interface.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_network_interface`:**

![aws_ec2_network_interface](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_interface_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_route_table`

![aws_ec2_route_table](./img/aws/aws_ec2_route_table.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_route_table`:**

![aws_ec2_route_table](./img/aws/aws_ec2_route_table_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_security_group`

![aws_ec2_security_group](./img/aws/aws_ec2_security_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_security_group`:**

![aws_ec2_security_group](./img/aws/aws_ec2_security_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_snapshot`

![aws_ec2_snapshot](./img/aws/aws_ec2_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_snapshot`:**

![aws_ec2_snapshot](./img/aws/aws_ec2_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_subnet`

![aws_ec2_subnet](./img/aws/aws_ec2_subnet.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_subnet`:**

![aws_ec2_subnet](./img/aws/aws_ec2_subnet_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_volume`

![aws_ec2_volume](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_volume`:**

![aws_ec2_volume](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_volume_type`

![aws_ec2_volume_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_volume_type`:**

![aws_ec2_volume_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_type_relationships.svg)

## `aws_eks_cluster`

![aws_eks_cluster](./img/aws/aws_eks_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_eks_cluster`:**

![aws_eks_cluster](./img/aws/aws_eks_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `aws_eks_nodegroup`

![aws_eks_nodegroup](./img/aws/aws_eks_nodegroup.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_eks_nodegroup`:**

![aws_eks_nodegroup](./img/aws/aws_eks_nodegroup_relationships.svg)

## `aws_elb`

![aws_elb](./img/aws/aws_elb.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_elb`:**

![aws_elb](./img/aws/aws_elb_relationships.svg)

## `aws_elb_quota`

![aws_elb_quota](./img/aws/aws_elb_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_elb_quota`:**

![aws_elb_quota](./img/aws/aws_elb_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_access_key`

![aws_iam_access_key](./img/aws/aws_iam_access_key.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_access_key`:**

![aws_iam_access_key](./img/aws/aws_iam_access_key_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_group`

![aws_iam_group](./img/aws/aws_iam_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_group`:**

![aws_iam_group](./img/aws/aws_iam_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_instance_profile`

![aws_iam_instance_profile](./img/aws/aws_iam_instance_profile.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_instance_profile`:**

![aws_iam_instance_profile](./img/aws/aws_iam_instance_profile_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_policy`

![aws_iam_policy](./img/aws/aws_iam_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_policy`:**

![aws_iam_policy](./img/aws/aws_iam_policy_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_role`

![aws_iam_role](./img/aws/aws_iam_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_role`:**

![aws_iam_role](./img/aws/aws_iam_role_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_server_certificate`

![aws_iam_server_certificate](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_server_certificate`:**

![aws_iam_server_certificate](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_server_certificate_quota`

![aws_iam_server_certificate_quota](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_server_certificate_quota`:**

![aws_iam_server_certificate_quota](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_user`

![aws_iam_user](./img/aws/aws_iam_user.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_user`:**

![aws_iam_user](./img/aws/aws_iam_user_relationships.svg)

## `aws_rds_instance`

![aws_rds_instance](./img/aws/aws_rds_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_rds_instance`:**

![aws_rds_instance](./img/aws/aws_rds_instance_relationships.svg)

## `aws_region`

![aws_region](./img/aws/aws_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_region`:**

![aws_region](./img/aws/aws_region_relationships.svg)

## `aws_resource`

![aws_resource](./img/aws/aws_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_resource`:**

![aws_resource](./img/aws/aws_resource_relationships.svg)

## `aws_s3_bucket`

![aws_s3_bucket](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_s3_bucket`:**

![aws_s3_bucket](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_relationships.svg)

## `aws_s3_bucket_quota`

![aws_s3_bucket_quota](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_s3_bucket_quota`:**

![aws_s3_bucket_quota](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc`

![aws_vpc](./img/aws/aws_vpc.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc`:**

![aws_vpc](./img/aws/aws_vpc_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_endpoint`

![aws_vpc_endpoint](./img/aws/aws_vpc_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_endpoint`:**

![aws_vpc_endpoint](./img/aws/aws_vpc_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_peering_connection`

![aws_vpc_peering_connection](./img/aws/aws_vpc_peering_connection.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_peering_connection`:**

![aws_vpc_peering_connection](./img/aws/aws_vpc_peering_connection_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_quota`

![aws_vpc_quota](./img/aws/aws_vpc_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_quota`:**

![aws_vpc_quota](./img/aws/aws_vpc_quota_relationships.svg)

Commit message:

feat(docs): document k8s configuration (#221)
* feat(docs): Document k8s configuration

* make more obvious, that the token is only an example

* make cadata optional

* fix(docs): edits and split cloud provider config into separate pages

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/data-models/aws.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Amazon Web Services
---

# Amazon Web Services Resources

## Configuration

:::info

Please refer to [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../getting-started/configuration/worker/cloud-providers/aws.md) for details on how to set up Resoto to collect [Amazon Web Services (AWS)](https://aws.amazon.com) resources.

:::

## `aws_account`

![aws_account](./img/aws/aws_account.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_account`:**

![aws_account](./img/aws/aws_account_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb`

![aws_alb](./img/aws/aws_alb.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb`:**

![aws_alb](./img/aws/aws_alb_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb_quota`

![aws_alb_quota](./img/aws/aws_alb_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb_quota`:**

![aws_alb_quota](./img/aws/aws_alb_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_alb_target_group`

![aws_alb_target_group](./img/aws/aws_alb_target_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_alb_target_group`:**

![aws_alb_target_group](./img/aws/aws_alb_target_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_autoscaling_group`

![aws_autoscaling_group](./img/aws/aws_autoscaling_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_autoscaling_group`:**

![aws_autoscaling_group](./img/aws/aws_autoscaling_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudformation_stack`

![aws_cloudformation_stack](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudformation_stack`:**

![aws_cloudformation_stack](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudformation_stack_set`

![aws_cloudformation_stack_set](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudformation_stack_set`:**

![aws_cloudformation_stack_set](./img/aws/aws_cloudformation_stack_set_relationships.svg)

## `aws_cloudwatch_alarm`

![aws_cloudwatch_alarm](./img/aws/aws_cloudwatch_alarm.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_cloudwatch_alarm`:**

![aws_cloudwatch_alarm](./img/aws/aws_cloudwatch_alarm_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_elastic_ip`

![aws_ec2_elastic_ip](./img/aws/aws_ec2_elastic_ip.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_elastic_ip`:**

![aws_ec2_elastic_ip](./img/aws/aws_ec2_elastic_ip_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance`

![aws_ec2_instance](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance`:**

![aws_ec2_instance](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance_quota`

![aws_ec2_instance_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance_quota`:**

![aws_ec2_instance_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_instance_type`

![aws_ec2_instance_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_instance_type`:**

![aws_ec2_instance_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_instance_type_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_internet_gateway`

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_internet_gateway`:**

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota`

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota`:**

![aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota](./img/aws/aws_ec2_internet_gateway_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_keypair`

![aws_ec2_keypair](./img/aws/aws_ec2_keypair.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_keypair`:**

![aws_ec2_keypair](./img/aws/aws_ec2_keypair_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_nat_gateway`

![aws_ec2_nat_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_nat_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_nat_gateway`:**

![aws_ec2_nat_gateway](./img/aws/aws_ec2_nat_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_network_acl`

![aws_ec2_network_acl](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_acl.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_network_acl`:**

![aws_ec2_network_acl](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_acl_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_network_interface`

![aws_ec2_network_interface](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_interface.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_network_interface`:**

![aws_ec2_network_interface](./img/aws/aws_ec2_network_interface_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_route_table`

![aws_ec2_route_table](./img/aws/aws_ec2_route_table.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_route_table`:**

![aws_ec2_route_table](./img/aws/aws_ec2_route_table_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_security_group`

![aws_ec2_security_group](./img/aws/aws_ec2_security_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_security_group`:**

![aws_ec2_security_group](./img/aws/aws_ec2_security_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_snapshot`

![aws_ec2_snapshot](./img/aws/aws_ec2_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_snapshot`:**

![aws_ec2_snapshot](./img/aws/aws_ec2_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_subnet`

![aws_ec2_subnet](./img/aws/aws_ec2_subnet.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_subnet`:**

![aws_ec2_subnet](./img/aws/aws_ec2_subnet_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_volume`

![aws_ec2_volume](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_volume`:**

![aws_ec2_volume](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_relationships.svg)

## `aws_ec2_volume_type`

![aws_ec2_volume_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_ec2_volume_type`:**

![aws_ec2_volume_type](./img/aws/aws_ec2_volume_type_relationships.svg)

## `aws_eks_cluster`

![aws_eks_cluster](./img/aws/aws_eks_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_eks_cluster`:**

![aws_eks_cluster](./img/aws/aws_eks_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `aws_eks_nodegroup`

![aws_eks_nodegroup](./img/aws/aws_eks_nodegroup.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_eks_nodegroup`:**

![aws_eks_nodegroup](./img/aws/aws_eks_nodegroup_relationships.svg)

## `aws_elb`

![aws_elb](./img/aws/aws_elb.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_elb`:**

![aws_elb](./img/aws/aws_elb_relationships.svg)

## `aws_elb_quota`

![aws_elb_quota](./img/aws/aws_elb_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_elb_quota`:**

![aws_elb_quota](./img/aws/aws_elb_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_access_key`

![aws_iam_access_key](./img/aws/aws_iam_access_key.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_access_key`:**

![aws_iam_access_key](./img/aws/aws_iam_access_key_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_group`

![aws_iam_group](./img/aws/aws_iam_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_group`:**

![aws_iam_group](./img/aws/aws_iam_group_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_instance_profile`

![aws_iam_instance_profile](./img/aws/aws_iam_instance_profile.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_instance_profile`:**

![aws_iam_instance_profile](./img/aws/aws_iam_instance_profile_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_policy`

![aws_iam_policy](./img/aws/aws_iam_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_policy`:**

![aws_iam_policy](./img/aws/aws_iam_policy_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_role`

![aws_iam_role](./img/aws/aws_iam_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_role`:**

![aws_iam_role](./img/aws/aws_iam_role_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_server_certificate`

![aws_iam_server_certificate](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_server_certificate`:**

![aws_iam_server_certificate](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_server_certificate_quota`

![aws_iam_server_certificate_quota](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_server_certificate_quota`:**

![aws_iam_server_certificate_quota](./img/aws/aws_iam_server_certificate_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_iam_user`

![aws_iam_user](./img/aws/aws_iam_user.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_iam_user`:**

![aws_iam_user](./img/aws/aws_iam_user_relationships.svg)

## `aws_rds_instance`

![aws_rds_instance](./img/aws/aws_rds_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_rds_instance`:**

![aws_rds_instance](./img/aws/aws_rds_instance_relationships.svg)

## `aws_region`

![aws_region](./img/aws/aws_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_region`:**

![aws_region](./img/aws/aws_region_relationships.svg)

## `aws_resource`

![aws_resource](./img/aws/aws_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_resource`:**

![aws_resource](./img/aws/aws_resource_relationships.svg)

## `aws_s3_bucket`

![aws_s3_bucket](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_s3_bucket`:**

![aws_s3_bucket](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_relationships.svg)

## `aws_s3_bucket_quota`

![aws_s3_bucket_quota](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_s3_bucket_quota`:**

![aws_s3_bucket_quota](./img/aws/aws_s3_bucket_quota_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc`

![aws_vpc](./img/aws/aws_vpc.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc`:**

![aws_vpc](./img/aws/aws_vpc_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_endpoint`

![aws_vpc_endpoint](./img/aws/aws_vpc_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_endpoint`:**

![aws_vpc_endpoint](./img/aws/aws_vpc_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_peering_connection`

![aws_vpc_peering_connection](./img/aws/aws_vpc_peering_connection.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_peering_connection`:**

![aws_vpc_peering_connection](./img/aws/aws_vpc_peering_connection_relationships.svg)

## `aws_vpc_quota`

![aws_vpc_quota](./img/aws/aws_vpc_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `aws_vpc_quota`:**

![aws_vpc_quota](./img/aws/aws_vpc_quota_relationships.svg)
