docs/reference/data-models/digitalocean.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: DigitalOcean
---

# DigitalOcean Resources

## `digitalocean_alert_policy`

![digitalocean_alert_policy](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_alert_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_alert_policy`:**

![digitalocean_alert_policy](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_alert_policy_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_app`

![digitalocean_app](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_app.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_app`:**

![digitalocean_app](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_app_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_cdn_endpoint`

![digitalocean_cdn_endpoint](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_cdn_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_cdn_endpoint`:**

![digitalocean_cdn_endpoint](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_cdn_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_certificate`

![digitalocean_certificate](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_certificate`:**

![digitalocean_certificate](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry`

![digitalocean_container_registry](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry_repository`

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry_repository`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag`

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_database`

![digitalocean_database](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_database.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_database`:**

![digitalocean_database](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_database_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_domain`

![digitalocean_domain](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_domain`:**

![digitalocean_domain](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_domain_record`

![digitalocean_domain_record](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_record.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_domain_record`:**

![digitalocean_domain_record](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_record_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_droplet`

![digitalocean_droplet](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_droplet.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_droplet`:**

![digitalocean_droplet](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_droplet_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_firewall`

![digitalocean_firewall](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_firewall.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_firewall`:**

![digitalocean_firewall](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_firewall_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_floating_ip`

![digitalocean_floating_ip](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_floating_ip.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_floating_ip`:**

![digitalocean_floating_ip](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_floating_ip_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_image`

![digitalocean_image](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_image.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_image`:**

![digitalocean_image](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_image_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster`

![digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster`:**

![digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_load_balancer`

![digitalocean_load_balancer](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_load_balancer.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_load_balancer`:**

![digitalocean_load_balancer](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_load_balancer_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_project`

![digitalocean_project](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_project.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_project`:**

![digitalocean_project](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_project_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_region`

![digitalocean_region](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_region`:**

![digitalocean_region](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_region_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_resource`

![digitalocean_resource](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_resource`:**

![digitalocean_resource](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_resource_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_snapshot`

![digitalocean_snapshot](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_snapshot`:**

![digitalocean_snapshot](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_space`

![digitalocean_space](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_space.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_space`:**

![digitalocean_space](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_space_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_ssh_key`

![digitalocean_ssh_key](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_ssh_key.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_ssh_key`:**

![digitalocean_ssh_key](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_ssh_key_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_tag`

![digitalocean_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_tag.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_tag`:**

![digitalocean_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_tag_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_team`

![digitalocean_team](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_team.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_team`:**

![digitalocean_team](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_team_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_volume`

![digitalocean_volume](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_volume`:**

![digitalocean_volume](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_volume_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_vpc`

![digitalocean_vpc](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_vpc.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_vpc`:**

![digitalocean_vpc](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_vpc_relationships.svg)

Commit message:

feat(docs): document k8s configuration (#221)
* feat(docs): Document k8s configuration

* make more obvious, that the token is only an example

* make cadata optional

* fix(docs): edits and split cloud provider config into separate pages

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/data-models/digitalocean.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: DigitalOcean
---

# DigitalOcean Resources

## Configuration

:::info

Please refer to [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../getting-started/configuration/worker/cloud-providers/digitalocean.md) for details on how to set up Resoto to collect [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com) resources.

:::

## `digitalocean_alert_policy`

![digitalocean_alert_policy](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_alert_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_alert_policy`:**

![digitalocean_alert_policy](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_alert_policy_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_app`

![digitalocean_app](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_app.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_app`:**

![digitalocean_app](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_app_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_cdn_endpoint`

![digitalocean_cdn_endpoint](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_cdn_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_cdn_endpoint`:**

![digitalocean_cdn_endpoint](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_cdn_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_certificate`

![digitalocean_certificate](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_certificate`:**

![digitalocean_certificate](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry`

![digitalocean_container_registry](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry_repository`

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry_repository`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag`

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag`:**

![digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_container_registry_repository_tag_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_database`

![digitalocean_database](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_database.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_database`:**

![digitalocean_database](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_database_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_domain`

![digitalocean_domain](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_domain`:**

![digitalocean_domain](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_domain_record`

![digitalocean_domain_record](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_record.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_domain_record`:**

![digitalocean_domain_record](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_domain_record_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_droplet`

![digitalocean_droplet](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_droplet.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_droplet`:**

![digitalocean_droplet](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_droplet_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_firewall`

![digitalocean_firewall](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_firewall.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_firewall`:**

![digitalocean_firewall](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_firewall_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_floating_ip`

![digitalocean_floating_ip](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_floating_ip.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_floating_ip`:**

![digitalocean_floating_ip](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_floating_ip_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_image`

![digitalocean_image](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_image.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_image`:**

![digitalocean_image](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_image_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster`

![digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster`:**

![digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_kubernetes_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_load_balancer`

![digitalocean_load_balancer](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_load_balancer.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_load_balancer`:**

![digitalocean_load_balancer](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_load_balancer_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_project`

![digitalocean_project](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_project.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_project`:**

![digitalocean_project](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_project_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_region`

![digitalocean_region](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_region`:**

![digitalocean_region](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_region_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_resource`

![digitalocean_resource](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_resource`:**

![digitalocean_resource](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_resource_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_snapshot`

![digitalocean_snapshot](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_snapshot`:**

![digitalocean_snapshot](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_space`

![digitalocean_space](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_space.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_space`:**

![digitalocean_space](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_space_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_ssh_key`

![digitalocean_ssh_key](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_ssh_key.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_ssh_key`:**

![digitalocean_ssh_key](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_ssh_key_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_tag`

![digitalocean_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_tag.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_tag`:**

![digitalocean_tag](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_tag_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_team`

![digitalocean_team](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_team.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_team`:**

![digitalocean_team](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_team_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_volume`

![digitalocean_volume](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_volume`:**

![digitalocean_volume](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_volume_relationships.svg)

## `digitalocean_vpc`

![digitalocean_vpc](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_vpc.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `digitalocean_vpc`:**

![digitalocean_vpc](./img/digitalocean/digitalocean_vpc_relationships.svg)
