docs/reference/data-models/gcp.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Google Cloud Platform
---

# Google Cloud Platform Resources

## `gcp_autoscaler`

![gcp_autoscaler](./img/gcp/gcp_autoscaler.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_autoscaler`:**

![gcp_autoscaler](./img/gcp/gcp_autoscaler_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_backend_service`

![gcp_backend_service](./img/gcp/gcp_backend_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_backend_service`:**

![gcp_backend_service](./img/gcp/gcp_backend_service_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_bucket`

![gcp_bucket](./img/gcp/gcp_bucket.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_bucket`:**

![gcp_bucket](./img/gcp/gcp_bucket_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_database`

![gcp_database](./img/gcp/gcp_database.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_database`:**

![gcp_database](./img/gcp/gcp_database_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_disk`

![gcp_disk](./img/gcp/gcp_disk.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_disk`:**

![gcp_disk](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_disk_type`

![gcp_disk_type](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_disk_type`:**

![gcp_disk_type](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_type_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_forwarding_rule`

![gcp_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_forwarding_rule.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_forwarding_rule`:**

![gcp_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_forwarding_rule_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_gke_cluster`

![gcp_gke_cluster](./img/gcp/gcp_gke_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_gke_cluster`:**

![gcp_gke_cluster](./img/gcp/gcp_gke_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_global_forwarding_rule`

![gcp_global_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_global_forwarding_rule.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_global_forwarding_rule`:**

![gcp_global_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_global_forwarding_rule_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_global_network_endpoint_group`

![gcp_global_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_global_network_endpoint_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_global_network_endpoint_group`:**

![gcp_global_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_global_network_endpoint_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_health_check`

![gcp_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_health_check`:**

![gcp_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_http_health_check`

![gcp_http_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_http_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_http_health_check`:**

![gcp_http_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_http_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_https_health_check`

![gcp_https_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_https_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_https_health_check`:**

![gcp_https_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_https_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance`

![gcp_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance`:**

![gcp_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_group`

![gcp_instance_group](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_group`:**

![gcp_instance_group](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_group_manager`

![gcp_instance_group_manager](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_manager.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_group_manager`:**

![gcp_instance_group_manager](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_manager_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_template`

![gcp_instance_template](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_template.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_template`:**

![gcp_instance_template](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_template_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_machine_type`

![gcp_machine_type](./img/gcp/gcp_machine_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_machine_type`:**

![gcp_machine_type](./img/gcp/gcp_machine_type_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_network`

![gcp_network](./img/gcp/gcp_network.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_network`:**

![gcp_network](./img/gcp/gcp_network_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_network_endpoint_group`

![gcp_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_network_endpoint_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_network_endpoint_group`:**

![gcp_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_network_endpoint_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_project`

![gcp_project](./img/gcp/gcp_project.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_project`:**

![gcp_project](./img/gcp/gcp_project_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_quota`

![gcp_quota](./img/gcp/gcp_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_quota`:**

![gcp_quota](./img/gcp/gcp_quota_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_region`

![gcp_region](./img/gcp/gcp_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_region`:**

![gcp_region](./img/gcp/gcp_region_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_resource`

![gcp_resource](./img/gcp/gcp_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_resource`:**

![gcp_resource](./img/gcp/gcp_resource_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_route`

![gcp_route](./img/gcp/gcp_route.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_route`:**

![gcp_route](./img/gcp/gcp_route_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_router`

![gcp_router](./img/gcp/gcp_router.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_router`:**

![gcp_router](./img/gcp/gcp_router_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_security_policy`

![gcp_security_policy](./img/gcp/gcp_security_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_security_policy`:**

![gcp_security_policy](./img/gcp/gcp_security_policy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_service`

![gcp_service](./img/gcp/gcp_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_service`:**

![gcp_service](./img/gcp/gcp_service_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_service_sku`

![gcp_service_sku](./img/gcp/gcp_service_sku.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_service_sku`:**

![gcp_service_sku](./img/gcp/gcp_service_sku_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_snapshot`

![gcp_snapshot](./img/gcp/gcp_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_snapshot`:**

![gcp_snapshot](./img/gcp/gcp_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_ssl_certificate`

![gcp_ssl_certificate](./img/gcp/gcp_ssl_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_ssl_certificate`:**

![gcp_ssl_certificate](./img/gcp/gcp_ssl_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_subnetwork`

![gcp_subnetwork](./img/gcp/gcp_subnetwork.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_subnetwork`:**

![gcp_subnetwork](./img/gcp/gcp_subnetwork_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_grpc_proxy`

![gcp_target_grpc_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_grpc_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_grpc_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_grpc_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_grpc_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_http_proxy`

![gcp_target_http_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_http_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_http_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_http_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_http_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_https_proxy`

![gcp_target_https_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_https_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_https_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_https_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_https_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_instance`

![gcp_target_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_target_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_instance`:**

![gcp_target_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_target_instance_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_pool`

![gcp_target_pool](./img/gcp/gcp_target_pool.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_pool`:**

![gcp_target_pool](./img/gcp/gcp_target_pool_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_ssl_proxy`

![gcp_target_ssl_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_ssl_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_ssl_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_ssl_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_ssl_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_tcp_proxy`

![gcp_target_tcp_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_tcp_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_tcp_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_tcp_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_tcp_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_vpn_gateway`

![gcp_target_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_target_vpn_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_vpn_gateway`:**

![gcp_target_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_target_vpn_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_url_map`

![gcp_url_map](./img/gcp/gcp_url_map.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_url_map`:**

![gcp_url_map](./img/gcp/gcp_url_map_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_vpn_gateway`

![gcp_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_vpn_gateway`:**

![gcp_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_vpn_tunnel`

![gcp_vpn_tunnel](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_tunnel.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_vpn_tunnel`:**

![gcp_vpn_tunnel](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_tunnel_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_zone`

![gcp_zone](./img/gcp/gcp_zone.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_zone`:**

![gcp_zone](./img/gcp/gcp_zone_relationships.svg)

Commit message:

feat(docs): document k8s configuration (#221)
* feat(docs): Document k8s configuration

* make more obvious, that the token is only an example

* make cadata optional

* fix(docs): edits and split cloud provider config into separate pages

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/data-models/gcp.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Google Cloud Platform
---

# Google Cloud Platform Resources

## Configuration

:::info

Please refer to [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../getting-started/configuration/worker/cloud-providers/gcp.md) for details on how to set up Resoto to collect [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com) resources.

:::

## `gcp_autoscaler`

![gcp_autoscaler](./img/gcp/gcp_autoscaler.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_autoscaler`:**

![gcp_autoscaler](./img/gcp/gcp_autoscaler_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_backend_service`

![gcp_backend_service](./img/gcp/gcp_backend_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_backend_service`:**

![gcp_backend_service](./img/gcp/gcp_backend_service_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_bucket`

![gcp_bucket](./img/gcp/gcp_bucket.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_bucket`:**

![gcp_bucket](./img/gcp/gcp_bucket_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_database`

![gcp_database](./img/gcp/gcp_database.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_database`:**

![gcp_database](./img/gcp/gcp_database_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_disk`

![gcp_disk](./img/gcp/gcp_disk.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_disk`:**

![gcp_disk](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_disk_type`

![gcp_disk_type](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_disk_type`:**

![gcp_disk_type](./img/gcp/gcp_disk_type_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_forwarding_rule`

![gcp_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_forwarding_rule.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_forwarding_rule`:**

![gcp_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_forwarding_rule_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_gke_cluster`

![gcp_gke_cluster](./img/gcp/gcp_gke_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_gke_cluster`:**

![gcp_gke_cluster](./img/gcp/gcp_gke_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_global_forwarding_rule`

![gcp_global_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_global_forwarding_rule.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_global_forwarding_rule`:**

![gcp_global_forwarding_rule](./img/gcp/gcp_global_forwarding_rule_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_global_network_endpoint_group`

![gcp_global_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_global_network_endpoint_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_global_network_endpoint_group`:**

![gcp_global_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_global_network_endpoint_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_health_check`

![gcp_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_health_check`:**

![gcp_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_http_health_check`

![gcp_http_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_http_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_http_health_check`:**

![gcp_http_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_http_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_https_health_check`

![gcp_https_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_https_health_check.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_https_health_check`:**

![gcp_https_health_check](./img/gcp/gcp_https_health_check_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance`

![gcp_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance`:**

![gcp_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_group`

![gcp_instance_group](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_group`:**

![gcp_instance_group](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_group_manager`

![gcp_instance_group_manager](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_manager.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_group_manager`:**

![gcp_instance_group_manager](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_group_manager_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_instance_template`

![gcp_instance_template](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_template.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_instance_template`:**

![gcp_instance_template](./img/gcp/gcp_instance_template_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_machine_type`

![gcp_machine_type](./img/gcp/gcp_machine_type.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_machine_type`:**

![gcp_machine_type](./img/gcp/gcp_machine_type_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_network`

![gcp_network](./img/gcp/gcp_network.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_network`:**

![gcp_network](./img/gcp/gcp_network_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_network_endpoint_group`

![gcp_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_network_endpoint_group.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_network_endpoint_group`:**

![gcp_network_endpoint_group](./img/gcp/gcp_network_endpoint_group_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_project`

![gcp_project](./img/gcp/gcp_project.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_project`:**

![gcp_project](./img/gcp/gcp_project_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_quota`

![gcp_quota](./img/gcp/gcp_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_quota`:**

![gcp_quota](./img/gcp/gcp_quota_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_region`

![gcp_region](./img/gcp/gcp_region.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_region`:**

![gcp_region](./img/gcp/gcp_region_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_resource`

![gcp_resource](./img/gcp/gcp_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_resource`:**

![gcp_resource](./img/gcp/gcp_resource_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_route`

![gcp_route](./img/gcp/gcp_route.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_route`:**

![gcp_route](./img/gcp/gcp_route_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_router`

![gcp_router](./img/gcp/gcp_router.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_router`:**

![gcp_router](./img/gcp/gcp_router_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_security_policy`

![gcp_security_policy](./img/gcp/gcp_security_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_security_policy`:**

![gcp_security_policy](./img/gcp/gcp_security_policy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_service`

![gcp_service](./img/gcp/gcp_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_service`:**

![gcp_service](./img/gcp/gcp_service_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_service_sku`

![gcp_service_sku](./img/gcp/gcp_service_sku.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_service_sku`:**

![gcp_service_sku](./img/gcp/gcp_service_sku_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_snapshot`

![gcp_snapshot](./img/gcp/gcp_snapshot.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_snapshot`:**

![gcp_snapshot](./img/gcp/gcp_snapshot_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_ssl_certificate`

![gcp_ssl_certificate](./img/gcp/gcp_ssl_certificate.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_ssl_certificate`:**

![gcp_ssl_certificate](./img/gcp/gcp_ssl_certificate_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_subnetwork`

![gcp_subnetwork](./img/gcp/gcp_subnetwork.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_subnetwork`:**

![gcp_subnetwork](./img/gcp/gcp_subnetwork_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_grpc_proxy`

![gcp_target_grpc_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_grpc_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_grpc_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_grpc_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_grpc_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_http_proxy`

![gcp_target_http_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_http_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_http_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_http_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_http_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_https_proxy`

![gcp_target_https_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_https_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_https_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_https_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_https_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_instance`

![gcp_target_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_target_instance.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_instance`:**

![gcp_target_instance](./img/gcp/gcp_target_instance_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_pool`

![gcp_target_pool](./img/gcp/gcp_target_pool.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_pool`:**

![gcp_target_pool](./img/gcp/gcp_target_pool_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_ssl_proxy`

![gcp_target_ssl_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_ssl_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_ssl_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_ssl_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_ssl_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_tcp_proxy`

![gcp_target_tcp_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_tcp_proxy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_tcp_proxy`:**

![gcp_target_tcp_proxy](./img/gcp/gcp_target_tcp_proxy_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_target_vpn_gateway`

![gcp_target_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_target_vpn_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_target_vpn_gateway`:**

![gcp_target_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_target_vpn_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_url_map`

![gcp_url_map](./img/gcp/gcp_url_map.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_url_map`:**

![gcp_url_map](./img/gcp/gcp_url_map_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_vpn_gateway`

![gcp_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_gateway.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_vpn_gateway`:**

![gcp_vpn_gateway](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_gateway_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_vpn_tunnel`

![gcp_vpn_tunnel](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_tunnel.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_vpn_tunnel`:**

![gcp_vpn_tunnel](./img/gcp/gcp_vpn_tunnel_relationships.svg)

## `gcp_zone`

![gcp_zone](./img/gcp/gcp_zone.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `gcp_zone`:**

![gcp_zone](./img/gcp/gcp_zone_relationships.svg)
