docs/reference/data-models/kubernetes.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Kubernetes
---

# Kubernetes Resources

## `kubernetes_cluster`

![kubernetes_cluster](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster`:**

![kubernetes_cluster](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cluster_role`

![kubernetes_cluster_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster_role`:**

![kubernetes_cluster_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cluster_role_binding`

![kubernetes_cluster_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_binding.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster_role_binding`:**

![kubernetes_cluster_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_binding_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_config_map`

![kubernetes_config_map](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_config_map.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_config_map`:**

![kubernetes_config_map](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_config_map_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_controller_revision`

![kubernetes_controller_revision](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_controller_revision.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_controller_revision`:**

![kubernetes_controller_revision](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_controller_revision_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cron_job`

![kubernetes_cron_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cron_job.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cron_job`:**

![kubernetes_cron_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cron_job_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_driver`

![kubernetes_csi_driver](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_driver.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_driver`:**

![kubernetes_csi_driver](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_driver_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_node`

![kubernetes_csi_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_node.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_node`:**

![kubernetes_csi_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_node_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity`

![kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity`:**

![kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_daemon_set`

![kubernetes_daemon_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_daemon_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_daemon_set`:**

![kubernetes_daemon_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_daemon_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_deployment`

![kubernetes_deployment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_deployment.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_deployment`:**

![kubernetes_deployment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_deployment_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_endpoint`

![kubernetes_endpoint](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_endpoint`:**

![kubernetes_endpoint](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_endpoint_slice`

![kubernetes_endpoint_slice](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_slice.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_endpoint_slice`:**

![kubernetes_endpoint_slice](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_slice_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_flow_schema`

![kubernetes_flow_schema](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_flow_schema.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_flow_schema`:**

![kubernetes_flow_schema](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_flow_schema_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler`

![kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler`:**

![kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_ingress`

![kubernetes_ingress](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_ingress`:**

![kubernetes_ingress](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_ingress_class`

![kubernetes_ingress_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_ingress_class`:**

![kubernetes_ingress_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_job`

![kubernetes_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_job.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_job`:**

![kubernetes_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_job_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_limit_range`

![kubernetes_limit_range](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_limit_range.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_limit_range`:**

![kubernetes_limit_range](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_limit_range_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration`

![kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_namespace`

![kubernetes_namespace](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_namespace.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_namespace`:**

![kubernetes_namespace](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_namespace_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_network_policy`

![kubernetes_network_policy](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_network_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_network_policy`:**

![kubernetes_network_policy](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_network_policy_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_node`

![kubernetes_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_node.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_node`:**

![kubernetes_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_node_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_persistent_volume`

![kubernetes_persistent_volume](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_persistent_volume`:**

![kubernetes_persistent_volume](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim`

![kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim`:**

![kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod`

![kubernetes_pod](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod`:**

![kubernetes_pod](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget`

![kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget`:**

![kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod_template`

![kubernetes_pod_template](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_template.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod_template`:**

![kubernetes_pod_template](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_template_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_priority_class`

![kubernetes_priority_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_priority_class`:**

![kubernetes_priority_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_priority_level_configuration`

![kubernetes_priority_level_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_level_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_priority_level_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_priority_level_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_level_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_replica_set`

![kubernetes_replica_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replica_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_replica_set`:**

![kubernetes_replica_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replica_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_replication_controller`

![kubernetes_replication_controller](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replication_controller.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_replication_controller`:**

![kubernetes_replication_controller](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replication_controller_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_resource`

![kubernetes_resource](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_resource`:**

![kubernetes_resource](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_resource_quota`

![kubernetes_resource_quota](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_resource_quota`:**

![kubernetes_resource_quota](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_quota_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_role`

![kubernetes_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_role`:**

![kubernetes_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_role_binding`

![kubernetes_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_binding.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_role_binding`:**

![kubernetes_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_binding_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_runtime_class`

![kubernetes_runtime_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_runtime_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_runtime_class`:**

![kubernetes_runtime_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_runtime_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_secret`

![kubernetes_secret](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_secret.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_secret`:**

![kubernetes_secret](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_secret_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_service`

![kubernetes_service](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_service`:**

![kubernetes_service](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_service_account`

![kubernetes_service_account](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_account.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_service_account`:**

![kubernetes_service_account](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_account_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_stateful_set`

![kubernetes_stateful_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_stateful_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_stateful_set`:**

![kubernetes_stateful_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_stateful_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_storage_class`

![kubernetes_storage_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_storage_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_storage_class`:**

![kubernetes_storage_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_storage_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration`

![kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_volume_attachment`

![kubernetes_volume_attachment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_volume_attachment.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_volume_attachment`:**

![kubernetes_volume_attachment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_volume_attachment_relationships.svg)

Commit message:

feat(docs): document k8s configuration (#221)
* feat(docs): Document k8s configuration

* make more obvious, that the token is only an example

* make cadata optional

* fix(docs): edits and split cloud provider config into separate pages

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/data-models/kubernetes.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Kubernetes
---

# Kubernetes Resources

## Configuration

:::info

Please refer to [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../getting-started/configuration/worker/cloud-providers/kubernetes.md) for details on how to set up Resoto to collect [Kuberenetes](https://kubernetes.io) resources.

:::

## `kubernetes_cluster`

![kubernetes_cluster](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster`:**

![kubernetes_cluster](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cluster_role`

![kubernetes_cluster_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster_role`:**

![kubernetes_cluster_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cluster_role_binding`

![kubernetes_cluster_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_binding.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cluster_role_binding`:**

![kubernetes_cluster_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cluster_role_binding_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_config_map`

![kubernetes_config_map](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_config_map.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_config_map`:**

![kubernetes_config_map](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_config_map_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_controller_revision`

![kubernetes_controller_revision](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_controller_revision.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_controller_revision`:**

![kubernetes_controller_revision](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_controller_revision_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_cron_job`

![kubernetes_cron_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cron_job.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_cron_job`:**

![kubernetes_cron_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_cron_job_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_driver`

![kubernetes_csi_driver](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_driver.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_driver`:**

![kubernetes_csi_driver](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_driver_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_node`

![kubernetes_csi_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_node.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_node`:**

![kubernetes_csi_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_node_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity`

![kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity`:**

![kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_csi_storage_capacity_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_daemon_set`

![kubernetes_daemon_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_daemon_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_daemon_set`:**

![kubernetes_daemon_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_daemon_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_deployment`

![kubernetes_deployment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_deployment.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_deployment`:**

![kubernetes_deployment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_deployment_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_endpoint`

![kubernetes_endpoint](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_endpoint`:**

![kubernetes_endpoint](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_endpoint_slice`

![kubernetes_endpoint_slice](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_slice.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_endpoint_slice`:**

![kubernetes_endpoint_slice](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_endpoint_slice_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_flow_schema`

![kubernetes_flow_schema](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_flow_schema.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_flow_schema`:**

![kubernetes_flow_schema](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_flow_schema_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler`

![kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler`:**

![kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_horizontal_pod_autoscaler_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_ingress`

![kubernetes_ingress](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_ingress`:**

![kubernetes_ingress](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_ingress_class`

![kubernetes_ingress_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_ingress_class`:**

![kubernetes_ingress_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_ingress_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_job`

![kubernetes_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_job.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_job`:**

![kubernetes_job](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_job_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_limit_range`

![kubernetes_limit_range](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_limit_range.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_limit_range`:**

![kubernetes_limit_range](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_limit_range_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration`

![kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_mutating_webhook_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_namespace`

![kubernetes_namespace](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_namespace.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_namespace`:**

![kubernetes_namespace](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_namespace_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_network_policy`

![kubernetes_network_policy](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_network_policy.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_network_policy`:**

![kubernetes_network_policy](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_network_policy_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_node`

![kubernetes_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_node.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_node`:**

![kubernetes_node](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_node_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_persistent_volume`

![kubernetes_persistent_volume](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_persistent_volume`:**

![kubernetes_persistent_volume](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim`

![kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim`:**

![kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_persistent_volume_claim_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod`

![kubernetes_pod](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod`:**

![kubernetes_pod](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget`

![kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget`:**

![kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_disruption_budget_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_pod_template`

![kubernetes_pod_template](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_template.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_pod_template`:**

![kubernetes_pod_template](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_pod_template_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_priority_class`

![kubernetes_priority_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_priority_class`:**

![kubernetes_priority_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_priority_level_configuration`

![kubernetes_priority_level_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_level_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_priority_level_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_priority_level_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_priority_level_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_replica_set`

![kubernetes_replica_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replica_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_replica_set`:**

![kubernetes_replica_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replica_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_replication_controller`

![kubernetes_replication_controller](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replication_controller.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_replication_controller`:**

![kubernetes_replication_controller](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_replication_controller_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_resource`

![kubernetes_resource](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_resource`:**

![kubernetes_resource](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_resource_quota`

![kubernetes_resource_quota](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_quota.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_resource_quota`:**

![kubernetes_resource_quota](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_resource_quota_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_role`

![kubernetes_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_role`:**

![kubernetes_role](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_role_binding`

![kubernetes_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_binding.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_role_binding`:**

![kubernetes_role_binding](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_role_binding_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_runtime_class`

![kubernetes_runtime_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_runtime_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_runtime_class`:**

![kubernetes_runtime_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_runtime_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_secret`

![kubernetes_secret](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_secret.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_secret`:**

![kubernetes_secret](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_secret_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_service`

![kubernetes_service](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_service`:**

![kubernetes_service](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_service_account`

![kubernetes_service_account](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_account.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_service_account`:**

![kubernetes_service_account](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_service_account_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_stateful_set`

![kubernetes_stateful_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_stateful_set.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_stateful_set`:**

![kubernetes_stateful_set](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_stateful_set_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_storage_class`

![kubernetes_storage_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_storage_class.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_storage_class`:**

![kubernetes_storage_class](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_storage_class_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration`

![kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration`:**

![kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_validating_webhook_configuration_relationships.svg)

## `kubernetes_volume_attachment`

![kubernetes_volume_attachment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_volume_attachment.svg)

**Relationships in the graph that shows predecessors and successors of `kubernetes_volume_attachment`:**

![kubernetes_volume_attachment](./img/kubernetes/kubernetes_volume_attachment_relationships.svg)
