versioned_docs/version-2.X/getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/gcp.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Google Cloud Platform
---

# Configure Google Cloud Platform Access

```mdx-code-block
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
```

The [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](../../reference/data-models/gcp.md) collector is configured within the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs/index.md) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md):

```bash
> config edit resoto.worker
```

Add `gcp` to the list of collectors by modifying the configuration as follows:

```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
resotoworker:
  ...
  # List of collectors to run
  collector:
# highlight-next-line
    - 'gcp'
    ...
...
```

## Authentication

You can authenticate with [Google Cloud Platform](../../reference/data-models/gcp.md) via [service account JSON files](#service-account-json-files) or [automatic discovery](#automatic-discovery).

### Service Account JSON Files

1. Make your service account JSON file(s) available to Resoto at `/home/resoto/.gcp`:

   <Tabs groupId="install-method">
   <TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

   - Add volume definition(s) for each service account JSON file to the `resotoworker` service in `docker-compose.yaml`:

     ```yaml title="docker-compose.yaml"
     services:
       ...
       resotoworker:
         image: somecr.io/someengineering/resotoworker:{{imageTag}}
         ...
     # highlight-start
         volumes:
           - <PATH TO SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>:/home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-1.json
           - <PATH TO ANOTHER SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>:/home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-2.json
     # highlight-end
       ...
     ...
     ```

   - Recreate the `resotoworker` container with the updated service definition:

     ```bash
     $ docker-compose up -d
     ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

   - Create a secret with the path(s) to your service account JSON file(s):

     ```bash
     $ kubectl -n resoto create secret generic resoto-auth \
       --from-file=service-account-1.json=<PATH TO SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON> \
       --from-file=service-account-2.json=<PATH TO ANOTHER SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>
     ```

   - Update `resoto-values.yaml` as follows:

     ```yaml title="resoto-values.yaml"
     ...
     resotoworker:
       ...
     # highlight-start
       volumeMounts:
         - mountPath: /home/resoto/.gcp`
           name: auth-secret
       volumes:
         - name: auth-secret
           secret:
             secretName: resoto-auth
     # highlight-end
     ...
     ```

   - Deploy these changes with Helm:

     ```bash
     $ helm upgrade resoto resoto/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}} -f resoto-values.yaml
     ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

   - Simply move or copy your service account JSON file(s) to the `~/.gcp` directory. (Since Resoto is running on your local machine, it can access the file(s) directly.)

     :::note

     The following steps assume that the file(s) are named `service-account-1.json`, `service-account-2.json`, etc.

     :::

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

2. Open the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

3. Modify the `gcp` section of the configuration as follows, adding the paths to your service account JSON file:

   ```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
   resotoworker:
     ...
   ...
   gcp:
     ...
   # highlight-start
     # GCP service account file(s)
     service_account:
       - /home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-1.json
       - /home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-2.json
   # highlight-end
   ...
   ```

### Automatic Discovery

You can specify an empty string for the service account file, and Resoto will automatically discover the service account and all the projects it has access to.

1. Open the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Modify the `gcp` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
   resotoworker:
     ...
   ...
   gcp:
     ...
   # highlight-start
     # GCP service account file(s)
     service_account:
       - ''
   # highlight-end
   ...
   ```

## Resource Collection

By default, Resoto performs resource collection each hour. To immediately trigger a collect run, use the [`workflow run` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/workflows/run.md) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

```bash
> workflow run collect
```

Once the collect run completes, you can view a summary of collected <abbr title="Google Cloud Platform">GCP</abbr> resources using the following search:

```bash
> search is(gcp_resource) | count kind
```

Commit message:

fix(docs): restore note about Compose V1 vs V2 command

versioned_docs/version-2.X/getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/gcp.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Google Cloud Platform
---

# Configure Google Cloud Platform Access

```mdx-code-block
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
```

The [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](../../reference/data-models/gcp.md) collector is configured within the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs/index.md) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md):

```bash
> config edit resoto.worker
```

Add `gcp` to the list of collectors by modifying the configuration as follows:

```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
resotoworker:
  ...
  # List of collectors to run
  collector:
# highlight-next-line
    - 'gcp'
    ...
...
```

## Authentication

You can authenticate with [Google Cloud Platform](../../reference/data-models/gcp.md) via [service account JSON files](#service-account-json-files) or [automatic discovery](#automatic-discovery).

### Service Account JSON Files

1. Make your service account JSON file(s) available to Resoto at `/home/resoto/.gcp`:

   <Tabs groupId="install-method">
   <TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

   - Add volume definition(s) for each service account JSON file to the `resotoworker` service in `docker-compose.yaml`:

     ```yaml title="docker-compose.yaml"
     services:
       ...
       resotoworker:
         image: somecr.io/someengineering/resotoworker:{{imageTag}}
         ...
     # highlight-start
         volumes:
           - <PATH TO SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>:/home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-1.json
           - <PATH TO ANOTHER SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>:/home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-2.json
     # highlight-end
       ...
     ...
     ```

   - Recreate the `resotoworker` container with the updated service definition:

     ```bash
     $ docker-compose up -d
     ```

     :::note

     [Docker Compose V2 integrated compose functions in to the Docker platform.](https://docs.docker.com/compose/#compose-v2-and-the-new-docker-compose-command)

     In Docker Compose V2, the command is `docker compose` (no hyphen) instead of `docker-compose`.

     :::

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem value="k8s" label="Kubernetes">

   - Create a secret with the path(s) to your service account JSON file(s):

     ```bash
     $ kubectl -n resoto create secret generic resoto-auth \
       --from-file=service-account-1.json=<PATH TO SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON> \
       --from-file=service-account-2.json=<PATH TO ANOTHER SERVICE ACCOUNT JSON>
     ```

   - Update `resoto-values.yaml` as follows:

     ```yaml title="resoto-values.yaml"
     ...
     resotoworker:
       ...
     # highlight-start
       volumeMounts:
         - mountPath: /home/resoto/.gcp`
           name: auth-secret
       volumes:
         - name: auth-secret
           secret:
             secretName: resoto-auth
     # highlight-end
     ...
     ```

   - Deploy these changes with Helm:

     ```bash
     $ helm upgrade resoto resoto/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}} -f resoto-values.yaml
     ```

   </TabItem>
   <TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

   - Simply move or copy your service account JSON file(s) to the `~/.gcp` directory. (Since Resoto is running on your local machine, it can access the file(s) directly.)

     :::note

     The following steps assume that the file(s) are named `service-account-1.json`, `service-account-2.json`, etc.

     :::

   </TabItem>
   </Tabs>

2. Open the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

3. Modify the `gcp` section of the configuration as follows, adding the paths to your service account JSON file:

   ```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
   resotoworker:
     ...
   ...
   gcp:
     ...
   # highlight-start
     # GCP service account file(s)
     service_account:
       - /home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-1.json
       - /home/resoto/.gcp/service-account-2.json
   # highlight-end
   ...
   ```

### Automatic Discovery

You can specify an empty string for the service account file, and Resoto will automatically discover the service account and all the projects it has access to.

1. Open the [Resoto Worker configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md) via the [`config` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/configs) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Modify the `gcp` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml title="Resoto Worker configuration"
   resotoworker:
     ...
   ...
   gcp:
     ...
   # highlight-start
     # GCP service account file(s)
     service_account:
       - ''
   # highlight-end
   ...
   ```

## Resource Collection

By default, Resoto performs resource collection each hour. To immediately trigger a collect run, use the [`workflow run` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/workflows/run.md) in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell):

```bash
> workflow run collect
```

Once the collect run completes, you can view a summary of collected <abbr title="Google Cloud Platform">GCP</abbr> resources using the following search:

```bash
> search is(gcp_resource) | count kind
```
