blog/resoto-aws-cdk-construct/index.mdx, before:

---
date: 2022-10-27
authors: [nikita]
tags: [AWS, Deployment]
---

# Resoto AWS CDK Construct

**We recently released the [Resoto <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws), which simplifies the deployment of Resoto to AWS.**

The CDK construct pretty simple. All you need is a recent version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) (we tested with 18.x.x) and [Git](https://git-scm.com). If you don't already have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed, we recommend using [Node Version Manager (`nvm`)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

<!--truncate-->

Once you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [Git](https://git-scm.com), you can deploy the Resoto CDK construct with just the following commands:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:someengineering/resoto-cdk.git
$ cd resoto-cdk
$ npm ci
$ npm run cdk deploy
```

:::note

If this is your first CDK deployment, you will need to bootstrap your AWS account. You can do so with the following command:

```bash
$ npm run cdk bootstrap
```

:::

It is also possible to customize the deployment by overriding the default CloudFormation parameter values:

```bash
$ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters MngInstanceType=t3.large
```

| Parameter         | Description                                                   | Default Value                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `ResotoTag`       | The Resoto image tag to use                                   | Latest Resoto release version |
| `MngMaxSize`      | The maximum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `3`                           |
| `MngMinSize`      | The minimum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`                           |
| `MngDesiredSize`  | The desired number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`                           |
| `MngInstanceType` | The instance type of the k8s managed node group               | `t3.large`                    |

We hope that the Resoto [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws) makes it easier to get started with Resoto!

## Further Reading

- [Deploy Resoto to Amazon Web Services](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws)

Commit message:

feat: add image, keywords, & description microdata to all blog posts

blog/resoto-aws-cdk-construct/index.mdx, after:

---
date: 2022-10-27
authors: [nikita]
tags: [AWS, Deployment]
description: The Resoto CDK construct simplifies the deployment of Resoto to AWS.
---

# Resoto AWS CDK Construct

**We recently released the [Resoto <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws), which simplifies the deployment of Resoto to AWS.**

The CDK construct pretty simple. All you need is a recent version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) (we tested with 18.x.x) and [Git](https://git-scm.com). If you don't already have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) installed, we recommend using [Node Version Manager (`nvm`)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm).

<!--truncate-->

Once you have [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [Git](https://git-scm.com), you can deploy the Resoto CDK construct with just the following commands:

```bash
$ git clone git@github.com:someengineering/resoto-cdk.git
$ cd resoto-cdk
$ npm ci
$ npm run cdk deploy
```

:::note

If this is your first CDK deployment, you will need to bootstrap your AWS account. You can do so with the following command:

```bash
$ npm run cdk bootstrap
```

:::

It is also possible to customize the deployment by overriding the default CloudFormation parameter values:

```bash
$ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters MngInstanceType=t3.large
```

| Parameter         | Description                                                   | Default Value                 |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `ResotoTag`       | The Resoto image tag to use                                   | Latest Resoto release version |
| `MngMaxSize`      | The maximum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `3`                           |
| `MngMinSize`      | The minimum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`                           |
| `MngDesiredSize`  | The desired number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`                           |
| `MngInstanceType` | The instance type of the k8s managed node group               | `t3.large`                    |

We hope that the Resoto [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr> <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws) makes it easier to get started with Resoto!

## Further Reading

- [Deploy Resoto to Amazon Web Services](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws)
