docs/reference/user-interface/index.mdx, before:

# User Interface

Resoto UI offers a simple way to interact with your infrastructure in your web browser. It helps you to discover, interact and automate more easily. Being built using the [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org), it uses a [web assembly](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design) application to run.

![Resoto UI](./img/resoto-ui-interface.jpg)

:::tip

We recommend using [Google Chrome](https://google.com/intl/en_en/chrome) to run the Resoto UI. Other web browsers might have issues with accessing the clipboard. On Firefox there is a workaround described [here](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/57382#issuecomment-1262280650).

:::

## Top Menu Bar

The Resoto user interface features a menu bar at the top of the screen.

![Resoto UI Top Bar](./img/resoto-ui-top-bar.png)

1. **Menu** (or pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd>) opens the main menu which gives you to access all the [features](#ui-features) and the [UI Settings](./settings-and-tools.mdx#user-interface-settings).

2. **Navigation** (only in standalone) to navigate back and forward. When using the UI in a web browser, the browser back and forward buttons are used for this and the native ones are hidden.

3. **Resh Lite** opens a popup of the [Resoto Shell Lite](./resh-lite.mdx).

4. **Resoto logo** navigates to the default home screen.

5. **Search box** on the right side of the menu bar is visible when the UI is not showing the home screen. You can use this to quickly start a new [search](./search.mdx).

6. **Workflow status** indicates if a workflow is currently running. Click on it to get more information about the running [workflow](../../concepts/automation/index.mdx).

## Home Screen

The home screen is displayed by default. Clicking on these icons opens the other features or starts a new [search](./search.mdx).

![Resoto UI Home Screen](./img/resoto-ui-home-screen.jpg)

## UI features

### Dashboards

[Dashboards](./dashboards/index.mdx) give rich insights about the infrastructure that is being scraped by Resoto from live or historic data.

Dashboards are built by combining [widgets](./dashboards/widgets/index.mdx) using different [data sources](./dashboards/data-sources/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Dashboards](./img/resoto-ui-dashboards.jpg)

### Search

[Search](./search.mdx) your infrastructure simply and quickly.

![Resoto UI Search](./img/resoto-ui-search.png)

### Explore

[Explore](./explore.mdx) allows navigating the infrastructure using the neighborhood of your resources.

![Resoto UI Explore](./img/resoto-ui-explore.jpg)

### Job Editor

The [Job Editor](./job-editor.mdx) gives an easy-to-use interface to set up and manage [jobs](../../concepts/automation/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Job Editor](./img/resoto-ui-job-editor.jpg)

### Resoto Shell Lite

[Resoto Shell Lite](./resh-lite.mdx) (Resh Lite) gives you access to the full range of [CLI commands](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) as a popup you can open anywhere in the user interface.

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-resh-lite.jpg)

### Configuration Editor

The [Configuration Editor](./configuration-editor.mdx) gives you an easy way of editing Resoto [configurations](../configuration/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-config-editor.jpg)

### Setup Wizard

The [Setup Wizard](./setup-wizard.mdx) guides you through the initial setup of Resoto.

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-setup-wizard.jpg)

### Settings and Tools

In the [UI settings](./settings-and-tools.mdx#user-interface-settings) connection and cleanup settings can be managed.

The [Wizard Editor](./settings-and-tools.mdx#wizard-editor) is also found here. With the Wizard Editor, wizards can be created and edited.

## Contributing

The Resoto User Interface is maintained in a separate [GitHub repository](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto-ui). We are looking forward to your contribution!

Commit message:

feat(docs): describe login-based access (#730)
Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/reference/user-interface/index.mdx, after:

# User Interface

Resoto UI offers a simple way to interact with your infrastructure in your web browser. It helps you to discover, interact and automate more easily. Being built using the [Godot Engine](https://godotengine.org), it uses a [web assembly](https://github.com/WebAssembly/design) application to run.

![Resoto UI](./img/resoto-ui-interface.jpg)

:::info

See [Launch Resoto](/docs/getting-started/launch-resoto#resoto-ui) for instructions on how to start Resoto UI.

:::

:::tip

We recommend using [Google Chrome](https://google.com/chrome) to run Resoto UI, as other web browsers may not be able to access the clipboard.

On Firefox, [there is a workaround for this issue](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/57382#issuecomment-1262280650).

:::

## Top Menu Bar

The Resoto user interface features a menu bar at the top of the screen.

![Resoto UI Top Bar](./img/resoto-ui-top-bar.png)

1. **Menu** (or pressing <kbd>Esc</kbd>) opens the main menu which gives you to access all the [features](#ui-features) and the [UI Settings](./settings-and-tools.mdx#user-interface-settings).

2. **Navigation** (only in standalone) to navigate back and forward. When using the UI in a web browser, the browser back and forward buttons are used for this and the native ones are hidden.

3. **Resh Lite** opens a popup of the [Resoto Shell Lite](./resh-lite.mdx).

4. **Resoto logo** navigates to the default home screen.

5. **Search box** on the right side of the menu bar is visible when the UI is not showing the home screen. You can use this to quickly start a new [search](./search.mdx).

6. **Workflow status** indicates if a workflow is currently running. Click on it to get more information about the running [workflow](../../concepts/automation/index.mdx).

## Home Screen

The home screen is displayed by default. Clicking on these icons opens the other features or starts a new [search](./search.mdx).

![Resoto UI Home Screen](./img/resoto-ui-home-screen.jpg)

## UI features

### Dashboards

[Dashboards](./dashboards/index.mdx) give rich insights about the infrastructure that is being scraped by Resoto from live or historic data.

Dashboards are built by combining [widgets](./dashboards/widgets/index.mdx) using different [data sources](./dashboards/data-sources/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Dashboards](./img/resoto-ui-dashboards.jpg)

### Search

[Search](./search.mdx) your infrastructure simply and quickly.

![Resoto UI Search](./img/resoto-ui-search.png)

### Explore

[Explore](./explore.mdx) allows navigating the infrastructure using the neighborhood of your resources.

![Resoto UI Explore](./img/resoto-ui-explore.jpg)

### Job Editor

The [Job Editor](./job-editor.mdx) gives an easy-to-use interface to set up and manage [jobs](../../concepts/automation/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Job Editor](./img/resoto-ui-job-editor.jpg)

### Resoto Shell Lite

[Resoto Shell Lite](./resh-lite.mdx) (Resh Lite) gives you access to the full range of [CLI commands](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) as a popup you can open anywhere in the user interface.

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-resh-lite.jpg)

### Configuration Editor

The [Configuration Editor](./configuration-editor.mdx) gives you an easy way of editing Resoto [configurations](../configuration/index.mdx).

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-config-editor.jpg)

### Setup Wizard

The [Setup Wizard](./setup-wizard.mdx) guides you through the initial setup of Resoto.

![Resoto UI Resh Lite](./img/resoto-ui-setup-wizard.jpg)

### Settings and Tools

In the [UI settings](./settings-and-tools.mdx#user-interface-settings) connection and cleanup settings can be managed.

The [Wizard Editor](./settings-and-tools.mdx#wizard-editor) is also found here. With the Wizard Editor, wizards can be created and edited.

## Contributing

The Resoto User Interface is maintained in a separate [GitHub repository](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto-ui). We are looking forward to your contribution!
