blog/2022/03-30-digitalocean-plugin/index.md, before:

---
authors: [nikita]
tags: [search, graph, aws, gcp]
image: ./img/banner-social.png
---

# Resoto on Digital Ocean.

I’m happy to announce that resoto now supports the DigitalOcean cloud. 

Over the last few weeks, I worked on a plugin that allows collecting DigitalOcean resources. And now I’m proud to say that all DigitalOcean resources are supported in resoto from day one.


<!--truncate-->


## Using the plugin

To get started, launch resotoworker with the DigitalOcean API tokens provided via config or command line arguments. For example: 

```
resotoworker --digitalocean-api-tokens ACCESS_KEY_1 ACCESS_KEY_2 --digitalocean-spaces-access-keys SPACE_ACCESS_KEY_1:SPACE_ACCESS_SECRET_1 SPACE_ACCESS_KEY_1:SPACE_ACCESS_SECRET_1
```

DigitalOcean collector also supports multiple teams. To collect several teams, provide multiple keys separated by space.

The next step is to execute the collect command:

```
workflows run collect
```

After the collection is over, resoto is ready for use.

### Searching the cloud

All Digitalocean resources inherit from a digitalocean_resource class, and this means that you can find all resources using `is(digitalocean_resource)` syntax. For a more specific search, it is also possible to find the resource by its type, e.g. ‘search is(​​digitalocean_droplet)`.

To delete a resource, pipe the search results to a cleanup command. For example, `search is(​​digitalocean_droplet) | cleanup` will mark all droplets to be cleaned up, and they will be removed the next time the cleanup workflow runs. You can also trigger the cleanup manually by calling `workflows run cleanup`.

### Tagging

Additionally, you can tag the resource (for those resources where DigitalOcean supports tagging):  

`search is(digitalocean_droplet) | tag update tag_foo`
This command will attach tag `tag_foo` to all droplets. Please note that DigitalOcean does not support tag values.

To untag the resource, use the `tag delete` command:

`search is(digitalocean_droplet) | tag delete tag_foo`

### Jobs

Doing manual searches and cleanups is cool, but what if you could set up a cron job that cleans up the resources after your experiments? Resoto can do that as well.

For example, we can add a job that will cleanup the droplets older than 1 day for a specific digital ocean team at 04:00:

```
> jobs add cleanup-after-experiments --schedule '0 4 * * *'  ‘search is(digitalocean_droplet) and /ancestors.account.reported.id=="10923436" and age > 1d | cleanup’ 
```

This way, you can experiment all day long and your droplets will be cleaned up by the next day.

For more, see the [jobs section in the docs](https://resoto.com/docs/concepts/automation/job).

Commit message:

docs: add more links to the text

blog/2022/03-30-digitalocean-plugin/index.md, after:

---
authors: [nikita]
tags: [plugins, digitalocean]
---

# Resoto on Digital Ocean.

I’m happy to announce that resoto now supports the DigitalOcean cloud.

Over the last few weeks, I worked on a plugin that allows collecting DigitalOcean resources. And now I’m proud to say that all DigitalOcean resources are supported in resoto from day one.

## Getting started

To get started, launch resotoworker with the DigitalOcean API tokens provided via config or command line arguments. For example:

```
resotoworker --digitalocean-api-tokens ACCESS_KEY_1 ACCESS_KEY_2 --digitalocean-spaces-access-keys SPACE_ACCESS_KEY_1:SPACE_ACCESS_SECRET_1 SPACE_ACCESS_KEY_1:SPACE_ACCESS_SECRET_1
```

DigitalOcean collector also supports multiple teams. To collect several teams, provide multiple keys separated by space.

The next step is to execute the collect command:

```
workflows run collect
```

After the collection is over, resoto is ready to use.

<!--truncate-->

## Searching the cloud

All Digitalocean resources inherit from a digitalocean_resource class, and this means that you can find all resources using `is(digitalocean_resource)` syntax. For a more specific search, it is also possible to find the resource by its type, e.g. ‘search is(​​digitalocean_droplet)`.

To delete a resource, pipe the search results to a cleanup command. For example, `search is(​​digitalocean_droplet) | cleanup` will mark all droplets to be cleaned up, and they will be removed the next time the cleanup workflow runs. You can also trigger the cleanup manually by calling `workflows run cleanup`.

For more, chech out the [resoto documentation on search](https://resoto.com/docs/concepts/search).

## Tagging

Additionally, you can tag the resource (for those resources where DigitalOcean supports tagging):

`search is(digitalocean_droplet) | tag update tag_foo` This command will attach tag `tag_foo` to all droplets. Please note that DigitalOcean does not support tag values.

To untag the resource, use the `tag delete` command:

`search is(digitalocean_droplet) | tag delete tag_foo`

## Jobs

Doing manual searches and cleanups is cool, but what if you could set up a cron job that cleans up the resources after your experiments? Resoto can do that as well.

For example, we can add a job that will cleanup the droplets older than 1 day for a specific digital ocean team at 04:00:

```
> jobs add cleanup-after-experiments --schedule '0 4 * * *'  ‘search is(digitalocean_droplet) and /ancestors.account.reported.id=="10923436" and age > 1d | cleanup’
```

This way, you can experiment all day long and your droplets will be cleaned up by the next day.

For more, see the [jobs section in the docs](https://resoto.com/docs/concepts/automation/job).
