versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/kubernetes.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Kubernetes
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Install Resoto with Kubernetes

[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.

## Prerequisites

- [Helm](https://helm.sh) (version 3 or above)

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

- Kubernetes cluster ([kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) or [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io) should work as well)

- At least 2 CPU cores and 8 GB of RAM

  :::note

  Resoto performs CPU-intensive graph operations. In a production setup, we recommend at least four cores and 16 gigabytes of RAM. See [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../reference/configuration/worker.mdx#multi-core-machines) for more information.

  :::

## Directions

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="default" label="Default Installation">

1. Add the [Some Engineering Helm chart repository](https://helm.some.engineering):

   ```bash
   $ helm repo add someengineering https://helm.some.engineering
   ```

2. Update cached chart information:

   ```bash
   $ helm repo update
   ```

3. Install the `resoto` chart:

   ```bash
   $ helm install resoto someengineering/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}}
   ```

4. Retrieve the PSK from secret.

   This key is required for accessing the Resoto installation via the UI and CLI. These PSK is stored as [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret) in `resoto-psk`. Copy and run the following command to retrieve the PSK:

   ```bash
   kubectl get secret arango-user -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
   ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="customized" label="Customized Installation">

It is possible to customize your Resoto installation using a Helm values file.

1. Create a file `resoto-values.yaml` with the desired configuration:

   ```yaml title="Example configuration that mounts AWS credentials from a Kubernetes Secret"
   resotoworker:
     volumeMounts:
       - mountPath: /home/resoto/.aws
         name: aws-credentials
     volumes:
       - name: aws-credentials
         secret:
           secretName: resoto-home
   ```

   :::info

   [Configurable values are documented in the Some Engineering Helm Chart Repository.](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts/blob/main/someengineering/resoto/README.mdx#values)

   :::

2. Add the [Some Engineering Helm chart repository](https://helm.some.engineering):

   ```bash
   $ helm repo add someengineering https://helm.some.engineering
   ```

3. Update cached chart information:

   ```bash
   $ helm repo update
   ```

4. Install the `resoto` chart with the `resoto-values.yaml` file:

   ```bash
   $ helm install resoto someengineering/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}} -f resoto-values.yaml
   ```

5. Retrieve the PSK from secret.

   This key is required for accessing the Resoto installation via the UI and CLI. These PSK is stored as [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret) in `resoto-psk`. Copy and run the following command to retrieve the PSK:

   ```bash
   kubectl get secret arango-user -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
   ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

And just like that, you have Resoto running in a Kubernetes cluster!

Commit message:

Mark aws/k8s/digitalocean installation as deprecated

versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/kubernetes.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Kubernetes
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Install Resoto with Kubernetes

:::danger Deprecated

The kubernetes helm chart is not maintained any longer and will be removed in a future release. We recommend running Resoto via [Docker](docker.mdx).

::::

[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.

## Prerequisites

- [Helm](https://helm.sh) (version 3 or above)

- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)

- Kubernetes cluster ([kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io) or [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io) should work as well)

- At least 2 CPU cores and 8 GB of RAM

  :::note

  Resoto performs CPU-intensive graph operations. In a production setup, we recommend at least four cores and 16 gigabytes of RAM. See [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../reference/configuration/worker.mdx#multi-core-machines) for more information.

  :::

## Directions

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="default" label="Default Installation">

1. Add the [Some Engineering Helm chart repository](https://helm.some.engineering):

   ```bash
   $ helm repo add someengineering https://helm.some.engineering
   ```

2. Update cached chart information:

   ```bash
   $ helm repo update
   ```

3. Install the `resoto` chart:

   ```bash
   $ helm install resoto someengineering/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}}
   ```

4. Retrieve the PSK from secret.

   This key is required for accessing the Resoto installation via the UI and CLI. These PSK is stored as [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret) in `resoto-psk`. Copy and run the following command to retrieve the PSK:

   ```bash
   kubectl get secret arango-user -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
   ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="customized" label="Customized Installation">

It is possible to customize your Resoto installation using a Helm values file.

1. Create a file `resoto-values.yaml` with the desired configuration:

   ```yaml title="Example configuration that mounts AWS credentials from a Kubernetes Secret"
   resotoworker:
     volumeMounts:
       - mountPath: /home/resoto/.aws
         name: aws-credentials
     volumes:
       - name: aws-credentials
         secret:
           secretName: resoto-home
   ```

   :::info

   [Configurable values are documented in the Some Engineering Helm Chart Repository.](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts/blob/main/someengineering/resoto/README.mdx#values)

   :::

2. Add the [Some Engineering Helm chart repository](https://helm.some.engineering):

   ```bash
   $ helm repo add someengineering https://helm.some.engineering
   ```

3. Update cached chart information:

   ```bash
   $ helm repo update
   ```

4. Install the `resoto` chart with the `resoto-values.yaml` file:

   ```bash
   $ helm install resoto someengineering/resoto --set image.tag={{imageTag}} -f resoto-values.yaml
   ```

5. Retrieve the PSK from secret.

   This key is required for accessing the Resoto installation via the UI and CLI. These PSK is stored as [Kubernetes Secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret) in `resoto-psk`. Copy and run the following command to retrieve the PSK:

   ```bash
   kubectl get secret arango-user -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 --decode
   ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

And just like that, you have Resoto running in a Kubernetes cluster!
