versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/pip.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: pip
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Install Resoto with pip

[pip](https://pip.pypa.io) is the package installer for [Python](https://python.org) and allows for easy installation of [Python](https://python.org) packages in Linux environments.

<VersionOnly allowed="current">

:::info

**The `edge` version of Resoto is not installable with [pip](https://pip.pypa.io).**

The below instructions will install the latest stable version of Resoto (<LatestRelease />).

:::

</VersionOnly>

## Prerequisites

- [Python](https://python.org) 3.9+ (3.10 is recommended)

- [ArangoDB](https://arangodb.com) 3.8.4+

- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) 2.35.0+

- At least 2 CPU cores and 8 GB of RAM

## Directions

1.  Install Resoto Python packages using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io):

    ```bash title="Installing Resoto using pip"
    $ mkdir -p ~/resoto
    $ cd ~/resoto
    $ python3 -m venv resoto-venv      # Create a virtual Python environment.
    $ source resoto-venv/bin/activate  # Activate the virtual Python environment.
    $ python -m ensurepip --upgrade    # Ensure pip is available.
    $ pip install -U resotocore=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotoworker=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotometrics=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotoshell=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-aws=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-gcp=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-k8s=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-digitalocean=={{nonEdgeImageTag}}
    # Generate two random passphrases. One to secure the graph database and one to secure resotocore with.
    $ echo $(LC_ALL=C tr -dc _A-Z-a-z-0-9 < /dev/urandom | head -c 20) > .graphdb-password
    $ echo $(LC_ALL=C tr -dc _A-Z-a-z-0-9 < /dev/urandom | head -c 20) > .pre-shared-key
    $ chmod 600 .graphdb-password .pre-shared-key
    ```

2.  Install ArangoDB following the [installation instructions](https://arangodb.com/docs/stable/getting-started-installation.html) for your Linux distribution. Also read the [Linux Operating System Configuration](https://arangodb.com/docs/stable/installation-linux-osconfiguration.html) guide for optimal database performance.

    The following will start ArangoDB on the current shell (which is )useful for testing):

    ```bash
    $ mkdir -p ~/resoto/arangodb ~/resoto/data
    $ cd ~/resoto
    $ curl -L -o arangodb3.tar.gz https://download.arangodb.com/arangodb39/Community/Linux/arangodb3-linux-3.9.1.tar.gz
    $ tar xzf arangodb3.tar.gz --strip-components=1 -C arangodb
    $ rm -f arangodb3.tar.gz
    $ arangodb/bin/arangod --database.directory ~/resoto/data
    ```

    :::note

    Once Resoto Core starts, it will automatically secure the ArangoDB installation using the password provided in the `.graphdb-password` file (unless explicitly turned off using the `--graphdb-bootstrap-do-not-secure` flag).

    :::

    :::info

    See [Security ⇒ Custom Certificates](../../reference/security.mdx#custom-certificates) for details on how to generate certificates and encrypt the connection between Resoto Core and the graph database.

    :::

3.  Create multiple shells/tabs and run each component in a separate shell:

    <Tabs>

    <TabItem value="resotocore" label="resotocore">

    ```bash
    $ graphdb_password=$(< ~/resoto/.graphdb-password)
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotocore --graphdb-password "$graphdb_password" --graphdb-server http://localhost:8529 --psk "$pre_shared_key" --ui-path ~/resoto/ui
    ```

    :::info

    [Resoto Core](../../reference/components/core.mdx) only listens on `localhost:8900` by default. [Resoto Core](../../reference/components/core.mdx) can be [configured to listen on all interfaces](../../reference/configuration/core.mdx#network-interfaces) if desired.

    :::

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="resotoworker" label="resotoworker">

    ```bash
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotoworker --resotocore-uri https://localhost:8900 --psk "$pre_shared_key"
    ```

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="resotometrics" label="resotometrics">

    ```bash
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotometrics --resotocore-uri https://localhost:8900 --psk "$pre_shared_key"
    ```

    :::info

    Resoto exposes Prometheus metrics at `https://localhost:9955/metrics`. Follow [the Prometheus Getting Started guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started) to install and configure a Prometheus server.

    :::

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>

Commit message:

Mark aws/k8s/digitalocean installation as deprecated (#949)
Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/pip.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: pip
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
unlisted: true
---

# Install Resoto with pip

[pip](https://pip.pypa.io) is the package installer for [Python](https://python.org) and allows for easy installation of [Python](https://python.org) packages in Linux environments.

:::warning

Resoto consists of a number of distributed components that are intended to run 24/7 on a server. We recommend [running Resoto using Docker](./index.mdx).

:::

:::tip

Don't want to manage your own Resoto installation? Check out **[Fix](https://fix.tt)**, an all-in-one security dashboard built on top of Resoto.

:::

<VersionOnly allowed="current">

:::info

**The `edge` version of Resoto is not installable with [pip](https://pip.pypa.io).**

The below instructions will install the latest stable version of Resoto (<LatestRelease />).

:::

</VersionOnly>

## Prerequisites

- [Python](https://python.org) 3.9+ (3.10 is recommended)

- [ArangoDB](https://arangodb.com) 3.8.4+

- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) 2.35.0+

- At least 2 CPU cores and 8 GB of RAM

## Directions

1.  Install Resoto Python packages using [pip](https://pip.pypa.io):

    ```bash title="Installing Resoto using pip"
    $ mkdir -p ~/resoto
    $ cd ~/resoto
    $ python3 -m venv resoto-venv      # Create a virtual Python environment.
    $ source resoto-venv/bin/activate  # Activate the virtual Python environment.
    $ python -m ensurepip --upgrade    # Ensure pip is available.
    $ pip install -U resotocore=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotoworker=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotometrics=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resotoshell=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-aws=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-gcp=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-k8s=={{nonEdgeImageTag}} resoto-plugin-digitalocean=={{nonEdgeImageTag}}
    # Generate two random passphrases. One to secure the graph database and one to secure resotocore with.
    $ echo $(LC_ALL=C tr -dc _A-Z-a-z-0-9 < /dev/urandom | head -c 20) > .graphdb-password
    $ echo $(LC_ALL=C tr -dc _A-Z-a-z-0-9 < /dev/urandom | head -c 20) > .pre-shared-key
    $ chmod 600 .graphdb-password .pre-shared-key
    ```

2.  Install ArangoDB following the [installation instructions](https://arangodb.com/docs/stable/getting-started-installation.html) for your Linux distribution. Also read the [Linux Operating System Configuration](https://arangodb.com/docs/stable/installation-linux-osconfiguration.html) guide for optimal database performance.

    The following will start ArangoDB on the current shell (which is )useful for testing):

    ```bash
    $ mkdir -p ~/resoto/arangodb ~/resoto/data
    $ cd ~/resoto
    $ curl -L -o arangodb3.tar.gz https://download.arangodb.com/arangodb39/Community/Linux/arangodb3-linux-3.9.1.tar.gz
    $ tar xzf arangodb3.tar.gz --strip-components=1 -C arangodb
    $ rm -f arangodb3.tar.gz
    $ arangodb/bin/arangod --database.directory ~/resoto/data
    ```

    :::note

    Once Resoto Core starts, it will automatically secure the ArangoDB installation using the password provided in the `.graphdb-password` file (unless explicitly turned off using the `--graphdb-bootstrap-do-not-secure` flag).

    :::

    :::info

    See [Security ⇒ Custom Certificates](../../reference/security.mdx#custom-certificates) for details on how to generate certificates and encrypt the connection between Resoto Core and the graph database.

    :::

3.  Create multiple shells/tabs and run each component in a separate shell:

    <Tabs>

    <TabItem value="resotocore" label="resotocore">

    ```bash
    $ graphdb_password=$(< ~/resoto/.graphdb-password)
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotocore --graphdb-password "$graphdb_password" --graphdb-server http://localhost:8529 --psk "$pre_shared_key" --ui-path ~/resoto/ui
    ```

    :::info

    [Resoto Core](../../reference/components/core.mdx) only listens on `localhost:8900` by default. [Resoto Core](../../reference/components/core.mdx) can be [configured to listen on all interfaces](../../reference/configuration/core.mdx#network-interfaces) if desired.

    :::

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="resotoworker" label="resotoworker">

    ```bash
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotoworker --resotocore-uri https://localhost:8900 --psk "$pre_shared_key"
    ```

    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="resotometrics" label="resotometrics">

    ```bash
    $ pre_shared_key=$(< ~/resoto/.pre-shared-key)
    $ source ~/resoto/resoto-venv/bin/activate
    $ resotometrics --resotocore-uri https://localhost:8900 --psk "$pre_shared_key"
    ```

    :::info

    Resoto exposes Prometheus metrics at `https://localhost:9955/metrics`. Follow [the Prometheus Getting Started guide](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/getting_started) to install and configure a Prometheus server.

    :::

    </TabItem>

    </Tabs>
