docs/reference/cli/query/README.md, before:

# `query`

The `query` command allows you to define a search query to filter available nodes.

```bash title="Find accounts across all cloud providers"
$> query is(account)
```

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts"
$> query is(aws_account)
```

Multiple criteria can be combined with `and` and `or`:

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts more than 2 weeks old"
$> query is(aws_account) and age>2w
```

Precedence is defined using parentheses:

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts that are either older than 2 weeks or have more than 10 users"
$> query is(aws_account) and (age>2w or users<10)
```

By default, all resources that satisfy the defined criteria will be returned. However, it is possible to limit the number of results by specifying `limit`:

```bash title="Find 3 AWS accounts that are are either older than 2 weeks or have more than 10 users"
$> query is(aws_account) and (age>2w or users>10) limit 3
```

It is also possible to define the sort order using `sort`:

```bash title="Find the 3 AWS accounts that are more than 2 weeks old with the greatest number of users"
$> query is(aws_account) and age>2w sort users desc limit 3
```

Commit message:

fix: format CLI command usage consistently

docs/reference/cli/query/README.md, after:

# `query`

The `query` command allows you to search the graph using filters, traversals, and functions.

## Usage

```bash
query [--include-edges] [--explain] <query>
```

### Options

| Option            | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `--include-edges` | Return edges in addition to nodes                |
| `--explain`       | Instead of executing the query, analyze its cost |

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description      | Required? | Default Value |
| --------- | ---------------- | --------- | ------------- |
| `query`   | Query to execute | ✔️        | N/A           |

### Aliases

- `match`

## Examples

```bash title="Find accounts across all cloud providers"
$> query is(account)
```

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts"
$> query is(aws_account)
```

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts more than 2 weeks old"
$> query is(aws_account) and age>2w
```

```bash title="Find all AWS accounts that are either older than 2 weeks or have more than 10 users"
$> query is(aws_account) and (age>2w or users<10)
```

```bash title="Find 3 AWS accounts that are are either older than 2 weeks or have more than 10 users"
$> query is(aws_account) and (age>2w or users>10) limit 3
```

```bash title="Find the 3 AWS accounts that are more than 2 weeks old with the greatest number of users"
$> query is(aws_account) and age>2w sort users desc limit 3
```
