docs/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-aws-ebs-volumes.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up AWS EBS Volumes
---

# How to Clean Up AWS EBS Volumes

When EC2 instances are removed, their storage volumes are sometimes left behind. Resoto can find and delete these unused storage volumes.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index.md).

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../concepts/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
     # Enable cleanup of resources
   # highlight-next-line
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
   # highlight-next-line
     cleanup_dry_run: false
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Execute the following search in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to list all unused EBS volumes:

   ```bash
   > search is(ebs_volume) and not /ancestors.instance
   ```

4. Refine the search criteria to only include unmounted volumes older than 30 days that have not been accessed in the last 7 days, in specific accounts:

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d
   ```

5. Now that we've defined the search for unused EBS volumes, simply pipe the result of the search query to the [`clean` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/clean.md):

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d | clean
   ```

   :::note

   The [`clean` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/clean.md) flags a resource for cleanup. Cleanup is performed whenever the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) runs. The workflow runs every hour by default, but can also be manually triggered using the `workflow run cleanup` command.

   :::

6. Automate flagging unused EBS volumes for cleanup by creating a [job](../../concepts/automation/job.md):

   ```bash
   > jobs add --id cleanup-unused-volumes --wait-for-event cleanup_plan 'search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d | clean'
   ```

The job will now run each time Resoto emits the `cleanup_plan` event. The `cleanup_plan` event is a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) and emitted after resource collection is complete but before the cleanup is performed.

Each time the job runs, unused storage volumes will be flagged for removal during the next cleanup run.

## Further Reading

- [Resource Cleanup](../../concepts/resource-management/cleanup.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Search](../../reference/search/index.md)
- [Job](../../concepts/automation/job.md)
- [Workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)

Commit message:

fix(docs): improve documentation on jobs and workflows (#613)
* feat(docs): Rewrite jobs and workflows

* feat(docs): Rewrite jobs and workflows

* fix references

* version 11 announcement

* combine time and event trigger

* fix(docs): edits that got quite out of hand (sorry\!)

* cloud data sync

* add examples

* refine automation and cloud sync

* format

* describe env

* intro to automation

* format

* fix(docs): edits and link corrections

* fix(docs): update 3.X docs

---------

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-aws-ebs-volumes.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up AWS EBS Volumes
---

# How to Clean Up AWS EBS Volumes

When EC2 instances are removed, their storage volumes are sometimes left behind. Resoto can find and delete these unused storage volumes.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your AWS cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/aws.md).

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../reference/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
     # Enable cleanup of resources
   # highlight-next-line
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
   # highlight-next-line
     cleanup_dry_run: false
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the [`collect_and_cleanup` workflow](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md#collect_and_cleanup-workflow), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Execute the following search in [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.md) to list all unused EBS volumes:

   ```bash
   > search is(ebs_volume) and not /ancestors.instance
   ```

4. Refine the search criteria to only include unmounted volumes older than 30 days that have not been accessed in the last 7 days, in specific accounts:

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d
   ```

5. Now that we've defined the search for unused EBS volumes, simply pipe the result of the search query to the [`clean` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/clean.md):

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d | clean
   ```

   :::note

   The [`clean` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/clean.md) flags a resource for cleanup.

   Cleanup is performed whenever the [`collect_and_cleanup` workflow](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md#collect_and_cleanup-workflow) runs.

   The workflow runs every hour by default, but can also be manually triggered using the `workflow run cleanup` command.

   :::

6. Automate flagging unused EBS volumes for cleanup by creating a [job](../../concepts/automation/index.md#jobs):

   ```bash
   > jobs add --id cleanup-unused-volumes --wait-for-event cleanup_plan 'search is(aws_ec2_volume) and /ancestors.account.reported.name in [eng-jenkins,eng-development] and volume_status = available and age > 30d and last_access > 7d | clean'
   ```

The job will now run each time Resoto emits the `post_cleanup_plan` event. The `post_cleanup_plan` event is emitted in the [`cleanup` phase](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md#cleanup) of the [`collect_and_cleanup` workflow](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md#collect_and_cleanup-workflow).

Each time the job runs, unused storage volumes will be flagged for removal during the next cleanup run.

## Further Reading

- [Resource Cleanup](../../concepts/resource-management/cleanup.md)
- [Cloud Data Sync](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md)
- [Automation](../../concepts/automation/index.md)
- [Search](../../reference/search/index.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)
