versioned_docs/version-2.X/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-orphaned-cloudwatch-alerts.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up Orphaned CloudWatch Alarms
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [AWS, CloudWatch]
---

# How to Clean Up Orphaned CloudWatch Alarms

When deleting EC2 instances, [CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch) alarms are sometimes left behind. Resoto can find and delete these orphaned alarms.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index.md).

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../concepts/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
   # highlight-start
     # Enable cleanup of resources
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
     cleanup_dry_run: false
   # highlight-end
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Finally, update the `plugin_cleanup_aws_alarms` section with the desired target cloud account IDs and setting the `enabled` property to `true`:

   ```yaml title="cleanup_aws_alarms plugin configuration"
   plugin_cleanup_aws_alarms:
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
   ```

The plugin will now run each time Resoto emits the `post_cleanup_plan` event. The `post_cleanup_plan` event is a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) and emitted after resource planning is complete but before the cleanup is performed.

## Further Reading

- [`cleanup_aws_alarms` Plugin](../../concepts/components/plugins/cleanup_aws_alarms.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Workflow](../../concepts/automation/job.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)

Commit message:

docs(docs): clarify cleanup in Howtos

versioned_docs/version-2.X/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-orphaned-cloudwatch-alerts.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up Orphaned CloudWatch Alarms
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [AWS, CloudWatch]
---

# How to Clean Up Orphaned CloudWatch Alarms

When deleting EC2 instances, [CloudWatch](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch) alarms are sometimes left behind. Resoto can find and delete these orphaned alarms.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index.md).

You should also read the [Resource Cleanup](../../concepts/resource-management/cleanup.md) guide to have an understanding how cleanup in Resoto is performed.

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../concepts/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
   # highlight-start
     # Enable cleanup of resources
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
     cleanup_dry_run: false
   # highlight-end
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Finally, update the `plugin_cleanup_aws_alarms` section with the desired target cloud account IDs and setting the `enabled` property to `true`:

   ```yaml title="cleanup_aws_alarms plugin configuration"
   plugin_cleanup_aws_alarms:
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
   ```

The plugin will now run each time Resoto emits the `post_cleanup_plan` event. The `post_cleanup_plan` event is a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) and emitted after resource planning is complete but before the cleanup is performed.

## Further Reading

- [`cleanup_aws_alarms` Plugin](../../concepts/components/plugins/cleanup_aws_alarms.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Workflow](../../concepts/automation/job.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)
