versioned_docs/version-2.X/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-aws-vpcs.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up AWS VPCs
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [AWS, VPC]
---

# How to Clean Up AWS VPCs

The `cleanup_aws_vpcs` plugin automatically flags dependent network resources for cleanup when a VPC is deleted. These resources include:

- AWS VPC Peering Connections
- AWS EC2 Network ACLs
- AWS EC2 Network Interfaces
- AWS ELB
- AWS ALB
- AWS ALB Target Groups
- AWS EC2 Subnets
- AWS EC2 Security Groups
- AWS EC2 Internet Gateways
- AWS EC2 NAT Gateways
- AWS EC2 Route Tables

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index.md).

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../concepts/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
   # highlight-start
     # Enable cleanup of resources
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
     cleanup_dry_run: false
   # highlight-end
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Finally, update the `plugin_cleanup_aws_vpcs` section with the desired target cloud account IDs and setting the `enabled` property to `true`:

   ```yaml title="cleanup_aws_vpcs plugin configuration"
   plugin_cleanup_aws_vpcs:
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
   ```

The plugin will now run each time Resoto emits the `post_cleanup_plan` event. The `post_cleanup_plan` event is a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) and emitted after resource planning is complete but before the cleanup is performed.

## Further Reading

- [`cleanup_aws_vpcs` Plugin](../../concepts/components/plugins/cleanup_aws_vpcs.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Workflow](../../concepts/automation/job.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)

Commit message:

docs(docs): clarify cleanup in Howtos

versioned_docs/version-2.X/how-to-guides/cleanup/clean-up-aws-vpcs.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Clean Up AWS VPCs
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [AWS, VPC]
---

# How to Clean Up AWS VPCs

The `cleanup_aws_vpcs` plugin automatically flags dependent network resources for cleanup when a VPC is deleted. These resources include:

- AWS VPC Peering Connections
- AWS EC2 Network ACLs
- AWS EC2 Network Interfaces
- AWS ELB
- AWS ALB
- AWS ALB Target Groups
- AWS EC2 Subnets
- AWS EC2 Security Groups
- AWS EC2 Internet Gateways
- AWS EC2 NAT Gateways
- AWS EC2 Route Tables

:::note

The `cleanup_aws_vpcs` plugin does not delete the VPC by itself. It only flags dependent resources for cleanup! Read the [Resource Cleanup](../../concepts/resource-management/cleanup.md) guide for more information how cleanup is performed.

tl;dr whenever you flag a VPC for cleanup, this plugin will flag all of its dependent resources for cleanup as well. During Resoto's next cleanup cycle, these resources will then be deleted in the correct order.

:::

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index.md).

You should also read the [Resource Cleanup](../../concepts/resource-management/cleanup.md) guide to have an understanding how cleanup in Resoto is performed.

## Directions

1. Execute the following command in [Resoto Shell](../../concepts/components/shell.md) to open the [Resoto Worker](../../concepts/components/worker.md) configuration for editing:

   ```bash
   > config edit resoto.worker
   ```

2. Enable cleanup by modifying the `resotoworker` section of the configuration as follows:

   ```yaml
   resotoworker:
   # highlight-start
     # Enable cleanup of resources
     cleanup: true
     # Do not actually cleanup resources, just create log messages
     cleanup_dry_run: false
   # highlight-end
     # How many cleanup threads to run in parallel
     cleanup_pool_size: 16
   ```

   When cleanup is enabled, marked resources will be deleted as a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md), which runs each hour by default.

   :::tip

   Set `cleanup_dry_run` to `true` to simulate cleanup without actually deleting resources.

   :::

3. Finally, update the `plugin_cleanup_aws_vpcs` section with the desired target cloud account IDs and setting the `enabled` property to `true`:

   ```yaml title="cleanup_aws_vpcs plugin configuration"
   plugin_cleanup_aws_vpcs:
     # Dictionary of key cloud with list of account IDs for which the plugin should be active as value
     config:
       aws:
         - '1234567'
         - '567890'
     # Enable plugin?
     enabled: true
   ```

The plugin will now run each time Resoto emits the `post_cleanup_plan` event. The `post_cleanup_plan` event is a part of the `collect_and_cleanup` [workflow](../../concepts/automation/workflow.md) and emitted after resource planning is complete but before the cleanup is performed.

From now on whenever you mark a VPC for cleanup, the plugin will automatically flag dependent network resources for cleanup.

## Further Reading

- [`cleanup_aws_vpcs` Plugin](../../concepts/components/plugins/cleanup_aws_vpcs.md)
- [Configuration](../../reference/configuration/index.md)
- [Workflow](../../concepts/automation/job.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)
