docs/how-to/alerting/set-up-discord-notifications.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Set Up Discord Notifications
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [Discord]
---

# How to Set Up Discord Notifications

## Introduction

Resoto constantly monitors your infrastructure, and can alert you to any detected issues.

One way to receive these notifications is via [Discord](https://discord.com). In this guide, we will configure Resoto to send alerts to a Discord text channel.

## Prerequisites

A Discord server and the privilege to create a webhook in Discord is required.

## Sending Alerts

Resoto ships with a custom command called `discord` which is able to send the result of a search to a Discord channel. In order to use this command you need to set up a Discord webhook in the [Integrations Section](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) and copy the webhook URL.

A common approach is the definition of rules as a search: every result that is returned violates the rule. For the sake of an example, lets assume we have a test account with name `test-account`, where people are not allowed to create instances with more than 4GB of RAM. The following search will find all instances in `test-account` with more than 4GB of RAM and send the result to Discord. To run this example, you need to replace the webhook URL with the one you have set up in the Discord webhook.

```shell title="Find instances in the test account "
> search is(instance) and instance_memory>4 and /ancestors.account.reported.name==test-account |
  discord title="Big Instances found. Please clean them up!"
  webhook="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/123/xxx"
​
​1 requests with status 204 sent.
```

The next step is automating this command as [Job](/docs/concepts/automation/job). We want to trigger this command whenever the resources in the cloud provider have changed. This way we will receive notifications in Discord when new resources have been created, that violate our rule.

```shell title="Create a rule to run the command automatically"
> jobs add --id notify_big_instances_in_test_account --wait-for-event post_collect
  'search is(instance) and instance_memory>4 and
  /ancestors.account.reported.name==test-account |
  discord title="Big Instances found. Please clean them up!"
  webhook="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/123/xxx"'
​
​Job notify_big_instances_in_test_account added.
```

Commit message:

fix(docs): edit Discord how-to guide

docs/how-to/alerting/set-up-discord-notifications.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Set Up Discord Notifications
sidebar_custom_props:
  tags: [Discord]
---

# How to Set Up Discord Notifications

## Introduction

Resoto constantly monitors your infrastructure, and can alert you to any detected issues.

One way to receive these notifications is via [Discord](https://discord.com). In this guide, we will configure Resoto to send alerts to a Discord text channel.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/installation/index.md) and configured Resoto to [collect your cloud resources](../../getting-started/configuration/cloud-providers/index.md).

You will also need the **Manage Webhooks** permission for the target text channel in your Discord server.

## Sending Alerts

1. [Create a webhook](https://support.discord.com/hc/en-us/articles/228383668-Intro-to-Webhooks) in your Discord server. Be sure to select the channel to which you want Resoto to send alerts.

   :::tip

   Customize the webhook name and avatar to make it easier to distinguish multiple webhooks for different alerts or services.

   :::

2. Define search criteria that will trigger an alert. For example, let's say we have a test account `test-account`, and instances with more than 4GB of RAM are not permitted:

   ```bash
   > search is(instance) and instance_memory>4 and /ancestors.account.reported.name==test-account
   ```

3. Now that we've defined the alert trigger, we will simply pipe the result of the search query to the `discord` [custom command](../../reference/cli/index.md#custom-commands), replacing the `title` with your desired alert text and `webhook` with your Discord webhook URL:

   ```bash
   > search is(instance) and instance_memory>4 and /ancestors.account.reported.name==test-account | discord title="Large instances found in test-account" webhook="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/..."
   ```

If the defined condition is currently true, you should see a new message in the specified Discord text channel.

4. Finally, we want to automate checking of the defined alert trigger and send alerts to Discord whenever the result is true. We can accomplish this by creating a [job](/docs/concepts/automation/job):

   ```bash
   > jobs add --id notify_large_test_instances --wait-for-event post_collect 'search is(instance) and instance_memory>4 and /ancestors.account.reported.name==test-account | discord title="Large instances found in test-account" webhook="https://discord.com/api/webhooks/..."'
   ```
