versioned_docs/version-3.X/how-to-guides/automation/create-a-scheduled-job.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Create a Scheduled Job
---

# How to Create a Scheduled Job

[Jobs](../../concepts/automation/index.md) allow you to define automations in Resoto and can be triggered on a regular schedule.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) Resoto.

## Directions

1. Define the action you would like to automate. For example, let's say we want to send Discord alerts listing deprecated RDS instances:

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_rds_instance) and db_type=aurora-postgresql and db_version~11 | discord title="Outdated Aurora databases found." message="This version is outdated and should be migrated!"
   ```

2. Determine the [job schedule](../../concepts/automation/index.md#schedule-trigger) and define it using a [cron expression](https://crontab.guru). For example, if we want to run the job every Monday at 9am:

   ```bash
   0 9 * * 1
   ```

3. Now that we've defined the action and decided on the schedule, create the job using the [`jobs add` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/jobs/add.md) (replace the value of the `--id` parameter with a unique job identifier):

   ```bash
   > jobs add --id outdated_aurora --schedule "0 9 * * 1" 'search is(aws_rds_instance) and db_type=aurora-postgresql and db_version~11 | discord title="Outdated Aurora databases found." message="This version is outdated and should be migrated!"'
   ```

## Related How-To Guides

- [How to Create an Event-Based Job](./create-an-event-based-job.md)

## Further Reading

- [Automation](../../concepts/automation/index.md)
- [Cloud Data Sync](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)

Commit message:

fix(docs): further improve automation page (#619)
* feat(docs): Improve automation page

* use cloud resource example

* fix: restore headings, make edits & corrections

* fix: add links to how-to guides in trigger sections

---------

Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

versioned_docs/version-3.X/how-to-guides/automation/create-a-scheduled-job.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Create a Scheduled Job
---

# How to Create a Scheduled Job

[Jobs](../../concepts/automation/index.md) allow you to define automations in Resoto and can be triggered on a regular schedule.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have already [installed](../../getting-started/install-resoto/index.md) Resoto.

## Directions

1. Define the action you would like to automate. For example, let's say we want to send Discord alerts listing deprecated RDS instances:

   ```bash
   > search is(aws_rds_instance) and db_type=aurora-postgresql and db_version~11 | discord title="Outdated Aurora databases found." message="This version is outdated and should be migrated!"
   ```

   :::tip

   See [Search How-To Guides](../search/index.md) for guidance on how to write search queries.

   :::

2. Determine the [job schedule](../../concepts/automation/index.md#schedule-trigger) and define it using a [cron expression](https://crontab.guru). For example, if we want to run the job every Monday at 9am:

   ```bash
   0 9 * * 1
   ```

3. Now that we've defined the action and decided on the schedule, create the job using the [`jobs add` command](../../reference/cli/action-commands/jobs/add.md) (replace the value of the `--id` parameter with a unique job identifier):

   ```bash
   > jobs add --id outdated_aurora --schedule "0 9 * * 1" 'search is(aws_rds_instance) and db_type=aurora-postgresql and db_version~11 | discord title="Outdated Aurora databases found." message="This version is outdated and should be migrated!"'
   ```

## Related How-To Guides

- [How to Create a Scheduled Event-Based Job](./create-a-scheduled-event-based-job.md)
- [How to Create an Event-Based Job](./create-an-event-based-job.md)

## Further Reading

- [Automation](../../concepts/automation/index.md)
- [Cloud Data Sync](../../concepts/cloud-data-sync/index.md)
- [Command-Line Interface](../../reference/cli/index.md)
