docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/cdk.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Cloud Development Kit
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_prev: getting-started/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Deploy Resoto to AWS with Cloud Development Kit

We provide a <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct to simplify the deployment of Resoto to AWS.

:::tip

The [Resoto web installer](./web-installer/index.mdx) is the easiest way to get a production-grade setup, whereas the CDK construct is a bit more involved but gives you more control over the setup and does not require you to send us your cloud credentials.

:::

## Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com)
- [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](https://aws.amazon.com) account with IAM role permissions
- [AWS command-line interface](https://aws.amazon.com/cli)
- [`kubectl` command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)

## Directions

1. Run the following commands in the terminal:

   ```bash
   $ git clone git@github.com:someengineering/resoto-cdk.git
   $ cd resoto-cdk
   $ npm ci
   ```

2. Then, deploy Resoto with the following command:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters ResotoTag={{imageTag}}
   ```

   :::note

   If this is your first CDK deployment, you will need to bootstrap your AWS account. You can do so with the following command:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk bootstrap
   ```

   :::

   :::info

   It is possible to override the default CloudFormation parameter values:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters ResotoTag={{imageTag}} --parameters MngInstanceType=r5a.xlarge
   ```

   | Parameter         | Description                                                   | Default Value     |
   | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
   | `ResotoTag`       | The Resoto image tag to use                                   | <LatestRelease /> |
   | `MngMaxSize`      | The maximum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `3`               |
   | `MngMinSize`      | The minimum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`               |
   | `MngDesiredSize`  | The desired number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`               |
   | `MngInstanceType` | The instance type of the k8s managed node group               | `r5a.xlarge`      |

   :::

3. Confirm the deployment. This will trigger CDK to create an EKS cluster and install the [Resoto Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts).

   :::info

   **The deployment will take approximately 30 minutes.** You can follow the progress in the terminal.

   Once deployment is complete, you will see output similar to the following:

   ```bash
   Outputs:
   ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX = aws eks update-kubeconfig ...
   ResotoEKS.ResotoPskSecret = kubectl get secrets ...
   ResotoEKS.ResotoUI = https://a3xxxxxx.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com:8900

   Stack ARN:
   arn:aws:cloudformation:us-east-1:115717706081:stack/ResotoEKS/e1b9e6a0-d5f6-11eb-8498-0a374cd00e27e
   ```

   :::

   :::info

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` in **Outputs** is a command to configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

     You can check that the connection is working by running the following command:

     ```bash
     $ kubectl get pods -A | grep resotocore
     ​resoto  resoto-resotocore-xxx  1/1  Running   0  32m
     ```

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoPskSecret` in **Outputs** is a command to retrieve the Resoto PSK.

     ```bash
     $ kubectl get secrets resoto-psk -o jsonpath='{.data.psk}' | base64 -d
     ```

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoUI` in **Outputs** is the URL of the Resoto UI.

   :::

Commit message:

Mark aws/k8s/digitalocean installation as deprecated (#949)
Co-authored-by: TheCatLady <52870424+TheCatLady@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/cdk.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Cloud Development Kit
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_prev: getting-started/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
unlisted: true
---

# Deploy Resoto to AWS with Cloud Development Kit

We provide a <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct to simplify the deployment of Resoto to AWS.

:::warning Deprecation notice

The Resoto <abbr title="Cloud Development Kit">CDK</abbr> construct is no longer actively maintained. We recommend [running Resoto using Docker](../index.mdx).

:::

:::info

The [Resoto web installer](./web-installer/index.mdx) is the easiest way to get a production-grade setup, whereas the CDK construct is a bit more involved but gives you more control over the setup and does not require you to send us your cloud credentials.

:::

:::tip

Don't want to manage your own Resoto installation? Check out **[Fix](https://fix.tt)**, an all-in-one security dashboard built on top of Resoto.

:::

## Prerequisites

- [Git](https://git-scm.com)
- [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](https://aws.amazon.com) account with IAM role permissions
- [AWS command-line interface](https://aws.amazon.com/cli)
- [`kubectl` command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)

## Directions

1. Run the following commands in the terminal:

   ```bash
   $ git clone git@github.com:someengineering/resoto-cdk.git
   $ cd resoto-cdk
   $ npm ci
   ```

2. Then, deploy Resoto with the following command:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters ResotoTag={{imageTag}}
   ```

   :::note

   If this is your first CDK deployment, you will need to bootstrap your AWS account. You can do so with the following command:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk bootstrap
   ```

   :::

   :::info

   It is possible to override the default CloudFormation parameter values:

   ```bash
   $ npm run cdk deploy -- --parameters ResotoTag={{imageTag}} --parameters MngInstanceType=r5a.xlarge
   ```

   | Parameter         | Description                                                   | Default Value     |
   | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
   | `ResotoTag`       | The Resoto image tag to use                                   | <LatestRelease /> |
   | `MngMaxSize`      | The maximum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `3`               |
   | `MngMinSize`      | The minimum number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`               |
   | `MngDesiredSize`  | The desired number of instances in the k8s managed node group | `1`               |
   | `MngInstanceType` | The instance type of the k8s managed node group               | `r5a.xlarge`      |

   :::

3. Confirm the deployment. This will trigger CDK to create an EKS cluster and install the [Resoto Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts).

   :::info

   **The deployment will take approximately 30 minutes.** You can follow the progress in the terminal.

   Once deployment is complete, you will see output similar to the following:

   ```bash
   Outputs:
   ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX = aws eks update-kubeconfig ...
   ResotoEKS.ResotoPskSecret = kubectl get secrets ...
   ResotoEKS.ResotoUI = https://a3xxxxxx.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com:8900

   Stack ARN:
   arn:aws:cloudformation:us-east-1:115717706081:stack/ResotoEKS/e1b9e6a0-d5f6-11eb-8498-0a374cd00e27e
   ```

   :::

   :::info

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` in **Outputs** is a command to configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

     You can check that the connection is working by running the following command:

     ```bash
     $ kubectl get pods -A | grep resotocore
     ​resoto  resoto-resotocore-xxx  1/1  Running   0  32m
     ```

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoPskSecret` in **Outputs** is a command to retrieve the Resoto PSK.

     ```bash
     $ kubectl get secrets resoto-psk -o jsonpath='{.data.psk}' | base64 -d
     ```

   - The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoUI` in **Outputs** is the URL of the Resoto UI.

   :::
