docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/cloudformation/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: CloudFormation
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index
---

# Deploy Resoto with AWS CloudFormation

```mdx-code-block
import CloudFormationButton from '@site/src/components/CloudFormationButton';
```

The Resoto CloudFormation template is the easiest way to get a production-grade setup.

## Prerequisites

- [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](https://aws.amazon.com) account with IAM role permissions
- [AWS command-line interface](https://aws.amazon.com/cli)
- [`kubectl` command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl)

## Deploying Resoto

1. Log into the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com).

2. Click this button to open the **Quick create stack** page:

   <CloudFormationButton />

3. Configure the stack name, node type, and node count:

   ![Quick create stack form](./img/quick-create-form.png)

   :::note

   Resoto performs CPU-intensive graph operations. In a production setup, we recommend at least four cores and 16 gigabytes of RAM. See [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../../../reference/configuration/worker.md#multi-core-machines) for more information.

   :::

4. Tick the checkboxes and click the orange **Create stack** button:

   ![Create stack button](./img/create-stack-button.png)

   This will trigger the CloudFormation stack creation. It will create an EKS cluster and install the [Resoto Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts).

   :::info

   **The deployment will take approximately 30 minutes.** You can follow the progress in the CloudFormation console **Events** tab.

   :::

5. Once the stack creation is completed, open the **Outputs** tab of the CloudFormation stack.

   ![kubectl output command](./img/eks-cfn-output.png)

6. Copy the value of `ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` and paste it into your terminal. This will configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

## Launching the Web UI

1. Open the **Outputs** tab of the CloudFormation stack. The value of `ResotoUI` is the URL for accessing Resoto UI. Click on the link to open Resoto UI.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. The UI requires a PSK token to authenticate. The value of `ResotoPskSecret` in the **Outputs** tab is the command to obtain this token. Copy the command and paste it into your terminal:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get secrets resoto-psk -o jsonpath="{.data.psk}" | base64 -d
   ```

3. Copy the outputted token and paste it into the PSK field of Resoto UI.

4. Resoto UI will start and guide you through the configuration. If it is your first time starting Resoto UI, the setup wizard will appear and help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI](../../img/resoto-ui.png)

## Launching the Command-Line Interface

The `resh` command is used to interact with [`resotocore`](../../../../concepts/components/core.md).

Simply execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../../../concepts/components/shell.md) interface:

```bash
$ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
```

![Screenshot of Resoto Shell](../../img/resoto-shell.png)

## Removing the Resoto Deployment

To remove the Resoto deployment and all associated resources, you can delete the CloudFormation stack.

:::warning

Removing the Resoto stack will also delete all data stored in the Resoto database.

:::

1. Open the CloudFormation console and select the stack you wish to delete:

   ![Delete Resoto stack](./img/delete-resoto-stack.png)

2. Click the **Delete** button at the top of the page.

Commit message:

docs(aws deploy): add a note about the current state of CloudFormation setup
The cloudformation template is currently broken. We want to redirect folks to use the CDK construct
instead.

docs/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/cloudformation/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: CloudFormation
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/configure-cloud-provider-access/index
---

# Deploy Resoto with AWS CloudFormation

```mdx-code-block
import CloudFormationButton from '@site/src/components/CloudFormationButton';
```

:::warning

The CloudFormation template is currently being updated and it is temporarily not available. Please use the [CDK construct](../cdk.md) to deploy to AWS.

:::

The Resoto CloudFormation template is the easiest way to get a production-grade setup.

## Prerequisites

- [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](https://aws.amazon.com) account with IAM role permissions
- [AWS command-line interface](https://aws.amazon.com/cli)
- [`kubectl` command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl)

## Deploying Resoto

1. Log into the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com).

2. Click this button to open the **Quick create stack** page:

   <CloudFormationButton />

3. Configure the stack name, node type, and node count:

   ![Quick create stack form](./img/quick-create-form.png)

   :::note

   Resoto performs CPU-intensive graph operations. In a production setup, we recommend at least four cores and 16 gigabytes of RAM. See [Configuring Resoto Worker](../../../../reference/configuration/worker.md#multi-core-machines) for more information.

   :::

4. Tick the checkboxes and click the orange **Create stack** button:

   ![Create stack button](./img/create-stack-button.png)

   This will trigger the CloudFormation stack creation. It will create an EKS cluster and install the [Resoto Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts).

   :::info

   **The deployment will take approximately 30 minutes.** You can follow the progress in the CloudFormation console **Events** tab.

   :::

5. Once the stack creation is completed, open the **Outputs** tab of the CloudFormation stack.

   ![kubectl output command](./img/eks-cfn-output.png)

6. Copy the value of `ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` and paste it into your terminal. This will configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

## Launching the Web UI

1. Open the **Outputs** tab of the CloudFormation stack. The value of `ResotoUI` is the URL for accessing Resoto UI. Click on the link to open Resoto UI.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. The UI requires a PSK token to authenticate. The value of `ResotoPskSecret` in the **Outputs** tab is the command to obtain this token. Copy the command and paste it into your terminal:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl get secrets resoto-psk -o jsonpath="{.data.psk}" | base64 -d
   ```

3. Copy the outputted token and paste it into the PSK field of Resoto UI.

4. Resoto UI will start and guide you through the configuration. If it is your first time starting Resoto UI, the setup wizard will appear and help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI](../../img/resoto-ui.png)

## Launching the Command-Line Interface

The `resh` command is used to interact with [`resotocore`](../../../../concepts/components/core.md).

Simply execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../../../concepts/components/shell.md) interface:

```bash
$ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
```

![Screenshot of Resoto Shell](../../img/resoto-shell.png)

## Removing the Resoto Deployment

To remove the Resoto deployment and all associated resources, you can delete the CloudFormation stack.

:::warning

Removing the Resoto stack will also delete all data stored in the Resoto database.

:::

1. Open the CloudFormation console and select the stack you wish to delete:

   ![Delete Resoto stack](./img/delete-resoto-stack.png)

2. Click the **Delete** button at the top of the page.
