versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/web-installer/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Resoto Web Installer
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: getting-started/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Deploy Resoto to AWS with the Resoto Web Installer

We provide a web installer for one-click deployment of Resoto to <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>.

:::tip

When deploying Resoto, we only use provided AWS credentials for the deployment. Credentials are not stored or retained after the deployment is complete.

If you are not comfortable sharing your credentials, you can alternatively use the [CDK construct](../cdk.mdx) to deploy Resoto.

:::

## Directions

1. Open the [Resoto web installer](https://install.resoto.com).

2. Enter your AWS credentials.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer credentials form](./img/form.png)

3. Wait until the deployment process is complete.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer deployment log](./img/deployment-log.png)

4. Once the deployment is successful, take note of the credentials required to connect to your Resoto cluster. Please keep them in a safe place as they will not be displayed again.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer after deployment completes](./img/psk.png)

5. Open the Resoto UI by clicking on the Resoto UI URL. You will be prompted to enter the PSK. Use the PSK shown in the installer result.

Commit message:

Mark aws/k8s/digitalocean installation as deprecated

versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/install-resoto/aws/web-installer/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Resoto Web Installer
sidebar_position: 1
pagination_prev: getting-started/index
pagination_next: getting-started/launch-resoto/index
---

# Deploy Resoto to AWS with the Resoto Web Installer

:::danger Deprecated

The web installer is not maintained any longer and will be removed in a future release. We recommend running Resoto via [Docker](../../docker.mdx).

::::

We provide a web installer for one-click deployment of Resoto to <abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>.

:::tip

When deploying Resoto, we only use provided AWS credentials for the deployment. Credentials are not stored or retained after the deployment is complete.

If you are not comfortable sharing your credentials, you can alternatively use the [CDK construct](../cdk.mdx) to deploy Resoto.

:::

## Directions

1. Open the [Resoto web installer](https://install.resoto.com).

2. Enter your AWS credentials.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer credentials form](./img/form.png)

3. Wait until the deployment process is complete.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer deployment log](./img/deployment-log.png)

4. Once the deployment is successful, take note of the credentials required to connect to your Resoto cluster. Please keep them in a safe place as they will not be displayed again.

   ![Screenshot of Resoto web installer after deployment completes](./img/psk.png)

5. Open the Resoto UI by clicking on the Resoto UI URL. You will be prompted to enter the PSK. Use the PSK shown in the installer result.
