blog/discover-kubernetes-resources/index.mdx, before:

---
date: 2022-08-31
authors: [matthias]
tags: [Kubernetes, Search, Automation, Graph Database, Resoto CLI, Discord]
---

# Discover Kubernetes Resources

[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) has dramatically improved the way we manage our workloads. It has become the de-facto standard for deploying and managing containerized applications, and is available in all major cloud providers.

A typical setup consists of distinct Kubernetes clusters for each application stage (e.g., dev, test, prod) or a cluster per tenant, and Kubernetes clusters shared between different users and teams often utilize namespaces and roles to control access. Deploying a single application to a Kubernetes cluster usually consists of tens to hundreds of resources (e.g., deployments, services, ConfigMaps, secrets, ingresses, etc.).

Even a relatively simple setup quickly becomes tedious to manage as the resource count grows. It is difficult for a human to keep track of resources, especially with user access limited to certain clusters in select namespaces.

![](./img/banner.png)

<!--truncate-->

## Kubernetes Support in Resoto

Kubernetes provides an API that returns information about a cluster's deployed resources. Resoto uses this API to build an index of resources in all of your Kubernetes clusters. Resoto continuously updates this index and the collected data is accessible via [Resoto Shell](/docs/reference/components/shell), [Resoto Notebook](/docs/reference/notebook), or Resoto UI.

![Resoto Overview](./img/resoto_overview.png)

:::info

The examples presented in this blog post are available in the [`someengineering/resotonotebook` GitHub repository](https://github.com/someengineering/resotonotebook/blob/main/examples/resoto_kubernetes.ipynb).

Try them out on your own Kubernetes cluster after [installing Resoto](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto)!

:::

## Full-Text Search

**One of the simplest ways to find resources in your cluster is using Resoto's [full-text search](/docs/reference/search/full-text).**

Resoto indexes the properties of all services in every namespace in each cluster. To perform a full-text search, simply provide your search term to the [`search` command](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/search) enclosed in double quotes:

```bash
> search "10.245.11.204"
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_service, id=377f0, name=test-service, age=6d23h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

The searches for IPv4 address `10.245.11.204` returned a single resource of kind `kubernetes_service`. To see _all_ properties of this service, pipe the result of the search to the [`dump` command](/docs/reference/cli/format-commands/dump):

```bash
> search "10.245.11.204" | dump
# highlight-start
​reported:
​  id: 377f0c0b
​  tags:
​    kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: bdf3a6cf-fa5a-4241-b344-91b93506ee02
​  name: test-service
​  ctime: '2022-08-22T09:06:04Z'
​  resource_version: '3024417'
​  namespace: test
​  service_status:
​    load_balancer:
​      ingress:
​      - ip: 164.90.240.138
​  service_spec:
​    allocate_load_balancer_node_ports: true
​    cluster_ip: 10.245.11.204
​    cluster_ips:
​    - 10.245.11.204
​    external_traffic_policy: Cluster
​    internal_traffic_policy: Cluster
​    ip_families:
​    - IPv4
​    ip_family_policy: SingleStack
​    ports:
​    - node_port: 30304
​      port: 80
​      protocol: TCP
​      target_port: '80'
​    type: LoadBalancer
​  kind: kubernetes_service
​  age: 6d23h
# highlight-end
```

## Filtering Resources

While Resoto's full-text search is a convenient way to find resources, you often want to specify additional criteria to filter the results. For example, we may want the results to [only include resources of a specific kind](/docs/reference/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-kind) or [filter for nodes with specific attributes](/docs/reference/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-predicate).

Since Resoto itself can be installed on a Kubernets cluster using the [Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/resoto), we can search for pods with names containing "resoto":

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~resoto
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7d2e76ef, name=resotocore-ndqfs, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7c7c6cfa, name=resotometrics-8vbwp, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=6297b9e1, name=resotoworker-8rzjq, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
# highlight-end
```

## Finding the Services of a Pod

Kubernetes uses labels and selectors to define the relationship between a service and a pod. It is valid to expose the same pod via different services. To reveal which service exposes a pod, we need to understand the selector syntax and check all pods for matching labels. Thankfully, Resoto analyzes the relationships between resources, providing this information as edges between nodes and revealing a directed acyclic graph.

To understand the concept of a graph a bit better, let me show you two examples that we present in our [Jupyter notebook](/docs/reference/notebook) via `display_svg(rnb.graph(...))`:

```python
is(kubernetes_service) and name=test-service -[0:2]->
```

![Outbound Dependencies](./img/test_service_outbound.svg)

We are searching for a specific Kubernetes service with the name `test-service` and asking to traverse all outgoing dependencies from the service to a maximum depth of two. The result is a graph that shows the service and three pods behind this service, that all reference the same configmap.

```python
is(kubernetes_service) and name=test-service <-[0:2]-
```

![Inbound Dependencies](./img/test_service_inbound.svg)

We can do the same query, but this time reverse the direction of the arrow, showing us all incoming dependencies up to two levels. This time we see all resources that have a dependency on this service.

:::note

Resoto understands the underlying provider of this Kubernetes cluster, in this case, DigitalOcean.

This service type is `LoadBalancer`, so a publicly available load balancer needs to be provided. A DigitalOcean load balancer is used here, backing the Kubernetes service. You can also see that the DigitalOcean load balancer is provided in the Frankfurt region in the default VPC.

All of this knowledge is gathered automatically by Resoto without any additional action.

:::

With this knowledge at hand, it is easy to get the services that expose a specific pod: we filter for the pod in question, walk the dependencies inbound by one step and then filter the resulting list of incoming dependencies for services.

![Services that expose a pod](./img/pod_traverse_inbound.svg)

```bash
> is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~bbw7m <-- is(kubernetes_service)
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_service, id=377f0c0b, name=test-service, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

We can list the pods that are exposed by a specific service the same way: we filter for the service, walk the graph one step outbound and filter the result list of resources to return only pods:

![Pods behind a service](./img/service_outbound.svg)

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_service) and name=~test --> is(kubernetes_pod)
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7bb6478e, name=test-deployment-bbw7m, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=84ab880b, name=test-deployment-pmgmm, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=a3207ba4, name=test-deployment-vrngg, age=6d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
# highlight-end
```

Getting the list of pods behind a service is also possible when we start from a specific pod. We need to combine two walks: find the pod and walk inbound to the service, then walk outbound from the service to all pods of this service. As you can see, traversals in the graph can be chained together. You can chain as many traversals as you want.

![Pods behind a service starting from pod](./img/pod_treverse_inoutbound.svg)

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~bbw7m <-- is(kubernetes_service) --> is(kubernetes_pod)
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7bb6478e, name=test-deployment-bbw7m, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=84ab880b, name=test-deployment-pmgmm, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=a3207ba4, name=test-deployment-vrngg, age=6d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
# highlight-end
```

The result of this search is the same as the previous one since we were starting from the same pod.

## Use the ~~Force~~ Graph, Luke!

[Walking the relationships of a resource graph](../a-walk-in-the-graph/index.mdx) can reveal a lot of useful information.

For example, let's say we want to know the amount of memory and the number of CPU cores available on the node running a specific pod:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name~resotocore <-- is(instance) | list instance_memory, instance_cores
# highlight-next-line
​instance_memory=2, instance_cores=1
```

The above search reveals that the pod runs on a rather weak node with only 2 GB of memory and a single CPU core.

Next, consider a scenario where we may have secrets no longer read by any Kubernetes resource. It is best practice to remove unused secrets, to reduce the risk of unauthorized access to your resources. To accomplish this task, we will filter the search for nodes of a kind `kubernetes_secret` that do not have a relation:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_secret) with(empty, <-- not is(kubernetes_namespace))
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_secret, id=cb3fdf32, name=nginx-letsencrypt-test, age=5mo24d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

The [`with` clause](/docs/reference/search/with-clause) allows us to find resources with specific relationships to other resources. Here, we searched for secrets without incoming relationships to resources aside from the owning namespace.

Finally, we'll find all incoming and outgoing dependencies of pods with name containing "resoto." As seen earlier, there are three such pods in the cluster. We can find the transitive dependencies of these resources using the `<-[0:]->` traversal, which follows both incoming (`<--`) and outgoing (`-->`) dependencies until it reaches either a leaf or the graph root:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name~resoto <-[0:]->
```

![Resoto Graph](./img/resoto_pods.svg)

The red nodes in the lower right corner of the above graph represent the three pods, and the other nodes depict their transitive dependencies. We can intuit quite a bit of information from this graph:

1. The three pods belong to three different deployments and replica sets.
2. Resoto Core has an attached service.
3. The three pods are running on two nodes.
4. DigitalOcean droplets back the nodes from a DigitalOcean Kubernetes cluster with version 1.23.9.
5. The Kubernetes cluster is running in Frankfurt on the default VPC.

## Counting Resources

Resoto can count resources or properties with the [`count` command](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/count).

The following counts the number of pods in all clusters:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count
# highlight-start
​total matched: 67
​total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

`namespace` is a property of each pod, and we can also count the pods for each namespace:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count namespace
# highlight-start
​test: 3
​resoto: 6
​posthog: 16
​kube-system: 42
​total matched: 67
​total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

The results reveal that there are four namespaces: `test`, `resoto`, `posthog` and `kube-system`. Most of the pods are running in the `kube-system` namespace.

Now, let's try to count the number of pods running on every node. Doing so is a bit more complicated since this information is not a property of the pod. However, we can get the node data by extracting the data from the graph. Resoto provides a special syntax to access the [ancestors and descendants](/docs/reference/search/merging-nodes#ancestors-and-descendants) of a resource:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_node.reported.name
# highlight-start
​dev-7u121: 9
​dev-7u129: 10
​dev-7u12z: 11
​analytics-7u14b: 12
​analytics-7u14r: 12
​analytics-7u14w: 13
# highlight-end
```

The above search result shows that there are two clusters, each with three nodes. The result also includes the number of pods running on each of these nodes.

The same approach can be used for counting the number of pods in each deployment:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_deployment.reported.name
```

## Aggregation

[`count`](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/count) is actually an [aggregation](/docs/reference/search/aggregation). Aggregations apply functions like `min`, `max`, `avg`, and `sum` on the a resource's property values.

Here, we combine some of the above searches to count the number of pods in each node, in addition to getting the amount of memory and CPU cores available on each node:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | aggregate /ancestors.instance.reported.name as node_name: sum(1) as pod_count, min(/ancestors.instance.reported.instance_memory) as memory, min(/ancestors.instnace.reported.instance_cores) as cores
```

The following table shows the results of the aggregation:

| `node_name`       | `pod_count` | `memory` | `cores` |
| ----------------- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
| `analytics-7u14w` | 13          | 8        | 2       |
| `analytics-7u14r` | 12          | 8        | 2       |
| `analytics-7u14b` | 12          | 8        | 2       |
| `dev-7u12z`       | 11          | 2        | 1       |
| `dev-7u129`       | 10          | 2        | 1       |
| `dev-7u121`       | 9           | 2        | 1       |

While aggregation can be helpful for adhoc queries, we can also turn this data into a time series and watch the values over time. See [Actionable Cloud Infrastructure Metrics](../actionable-cloud-infrastructure-metrics/index.mdx) for more details.

## Heatmaps

[Jupyter](https://jupyter.org) Notebook, a web-based interactive [Python](https://python.org) shell, makes it easy to visualize data. One option available out-of-the-box is heatmaps. Imagine that you have many clusters and want to see where compute instances are running. Heatmaps provide a clear visuzalization of this data:

```python
import plotly.express as px
data = rnb.search("is(instance)")
px.density_heatmap(data, x="account_id", y="instance_cores")
```

![Heatmap](./img/heatmap.png)

The heatmap shows accounts on the x-axis (each Kubernetes cluster is represented as an account) and the number of cores on the y-axis. Each square in the grid is color-coded to reflect the node count. It is clear at first glance that the cluster with ID `142729851518581` uses the most compute instances.

## Alerting

It is easy to integrate Resoto with other systems and services for custom [alerting](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting). Resoto ships with a `discord` custom command to [send notifications to a Discord channel](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting/send-discord-notifications). It is also possible to configure alerts to be sent to other services, such as [Prometheus Alertmanager](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting/send-prometheus-alertmanager-alerts).

One scenario where it is desirable to send alert notifications is when a pod is restarting too often.

To configure alerts for this scenario, we first need to define a search query to find such pods:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>42
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=3f16abea, name=posthog-worker-mtw8r, restart_count=[1], age=14d2h, cloud=k8s, account=posthog, region=posthog
```

A pod can have several containers, and `restart_count` is property of each container status. Since we do not care _which_ container is restarting too often, we use the wildcard `*` to match all container statuses. The above search found a single pod that meets this criteria.

Now that we've defined the search criteria, all we need to do is pipe the results to the `discord` custom command with the desired message title:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>42 | discord title="This pod is restarted too often, PTAL!"
# highlight-next-line
​1 requests with status 204 sent.
```

![Discord](./img/discord_notification.png)

However, the above command only executes a single time. We would like for Resoto to constantly monitor for pods that are restarting too often and send a notification whenever such pods are found. To do so, we can create a [job](/docs/concepts/automation#jobs) using the [`job` command](/docs/reference/cli/action-commands/job):

```bash
> jobs add --id pod_restarted_too_often --wait-for-event post_collect 'search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>0 | discord title="This pod is restarted too often, PTAL!"'
# highlight-next-line
​Job pod_restarted_too_often added.
```

We registered this job with the [`post_collect` event](/docs/reference/events#collect-events), so it will be executed automatically whenever new data has been [collected](/docs/concepts/cloud-data-sync).

## Kubernetes… and More!

Resoto is not only able to collect resource metadata from Kubernetes, but also other cloud providers as well.

Resoto is [open source](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/blob/main/LICENSE) and free to use, and currently supports [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-aws-resource-data), [Google Cloud](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-google-cloud-resource-data), and [DigitalOcean](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-digitalocean-resource-data).

[Install Resoto](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto) today!

Commit message:

feat: add image, keywords, & description microdata to all blog posts

blog/discover-kubernetes-resources/index.mdx, after:

---
date: 2022-08-31
authors: [matthias]
tags: [Kubernetes, Search, Automation, Graph Database, Resoto CLI, Discord]
description: Kubernetes provides an API that returns information about a cluster's deployed resources. Resoto uses this API to build an index of resources in all of your Kubernetes clusters.
---

# Discover Kubernetes Resources

[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io) has dramatically improved the way we manage our workloads. It has become the de-facto standard for deploying and managing containerized applications, and is available in all major cloud providers.

A typical setup consists of distinct Kubernetes clusters for each application stage (e.g., dev, test, prod) or a cluster per tenant, and Kubernetes clusters shared between different users and teams often utilize namespaces and roles to control access. Deploying a single application to a Kubernetes cluster usually consists of tens to hundreds of resources (e.g., deployments, services, ConfigMaps, secrets, ingresses, etc.).

Even a relatively simple setup quickly becomes tedious to manage as the resource count grows. It is difficult for a human to keep track of resources, especially with user access limited to certain clusters in select namespaces.

![](./img/banner.png)

<!--truncate-->

## Kubernetes Support in Resoto

Kubernetes provides an API that returns information about a cluster's deployed resources. Resoto uses this API to build an index of resources in all of your Kubernetes clusters. Resoto continuously updates this index and the collected data is accessible via [Resoto Shell](/docs/reference/components/shell), [Resoto Notebook](/docs/reference/notebook), or Resoto UI.

![Resoto Overview](./img/resoto_overview.png)

:::info

The examples presented in this blog post are available in the [`someengineering/resotonotebook` GitHub repository](https://github.com/someengineering/resotonotebook/blob/main/examples/resoto_kubernetes.ipynb).

Try them out on your own Kubernetes cluster after [installing Resoto](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto)!

:::

## Full-Text Search

**One of the simplest ways to find resources in your cluster is using Resoto's [full-text search](/docs/reference/search/full-text).**

Resoto indexes the properties of all services in every namespace in each cluster. To perform a full-text search, simply provide your search term to the [`search` command](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/search) enclosed in double quotes:

```bash
> search "10.245.11.204"
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_service, id=377f0, name=test-service, age=6d23h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

The searches for IPv4 address `10.245.11.204` returned a single resource of kind `kubernetes_service`. To see _all_ properties of this service, pipe the result of the search to the [`dump` command](/docs/reference/cli/format-commands/dump):

```bash
> search "10.245.11.204" | dump
# highlight-start
​reported:
​  id: 377f0c0b
​  tags:
​    kubernetes.digitalocean.com/load-balancer-id: bdf3a6cf-fa5a-4241-b344-91b93506ee02
​  name: test-service
​  ctime: '2022-08-22T09:06:04Z'
​  resource_version: '3024417'
​  namespace: test
​  service_status:
​    load_balancer:
​      ingress:
​      - ip: 164.90.240.138
​  service_spec:
​    allocate_load_balancer_node_ports: true
​    cluster_ip: 10.245.11.204
​    cluster_ips:
​    - 10.245.11.204
​    external_traffic_policy: Cluster
​    internal_traffic_policy: Cluster
​    ip_families:
​    - IPv4
​    ip_family_policy: SingleStack
​    ports:
​    - node_port: 30304
​      port: 80
​      protocol: TCP
​      target_port: '80'
​    type: LoadBalancer
​  kind: kubernetes_service
​  age: 6d23h
# highlight-end
```

## Filtering Resources

While Resoto's full-text search is a convenient way to find resources, you often want to specify additional criteria to filter the results. For example, we may want the results to [only include resources of a specific kind](/docs/reference/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-kind) or [filter for nodes with specific attributes](/docs/reference/search/filters#selecting-nodes-by-predicate).

Since Resoto itself can be installed on a Kubernets cluster using the [Helm chart](https://github.com/someengineering/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/resoto), we can search for pods with names containing "resoto":

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~resoto
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7d2e76ef, name=resotocore-ndqfs, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7c7c6cfa, name=resotometrics-8vbwp, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=6297b9e1, name=resotoworker-8rzjq, age=11d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=resoto
# highlight-end
```

## Finding the Services of a Pod

Kubernetes uses labels and selectors to define the relationship between a service and a pod. It is valid to expose the same pod via different services. To reveal which service exposes a pod, we need to understand the selector syntax and check all pods for matching labels. Thankfully, Resoto analyzes the relationships between resources, providing this information as edges between nodes and revealing a directed acyclic graph.

To understand the concept of a graph a bit better, let me show you two examples that we present in our [Jupyter notebook](/docs/reference/notebook) via `display_svg(rnb.graph(...))`:

```python
is(kubernetes_service) and name=test-service -[0:2]->
```

![Outbound Dependencies](./img/test_service_outbound.svg)

We are searching for a specific Kubernetes service with the name `test-service` and asking to traverse all outgoing dependencies from the service to a maximum depth of two. The result is a graph that shows the service and three pods behind this service, that all reference the same configmap.

```python
is(kubernetes_service) and name=test-service <-[0:2]-
```

![Inbound Dependencies](./img/test_service_inbound.svg)

We can do the same query, but this time reverse the direction of the arrow, showing us all incoming dependencies up to two levels. This time we see all resources that have a dependency on this service.

:::note

Resoto understands the underlying provider of this Kubernetes cluster, in this case, DigitalOcean.

This service type is `LoadBalancer`, so a publicly available load balancer needs to be provided. A DigitalOcean load balancer is used here, backing the Kubernetes service. You can also see that the DigitalOcean load balancer is provided in the Frankfurt region in the default VPC.

All of this knowledge is gathered automatically by Resoto without any additional action.

:::

With this knowledge at hand, it is easy to get the services that expose a specific pod: we filter for the pod in question, walk the dependencies inbound by one step and then filter the resulting list of incoming dependencies for services.

![Services that expose a pod](./img/pod_traverse_inbound.svg)

```bash
> is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~bbw7m <-- is(kubernetes_service)
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_service, id=377f0c0b, name=test-service, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

We can list the pods that are exposed by a specific service the same way: we filter for the service, walk the graph one step outbound and filter the result list of resources to return only pods:

![Pods behind a service](./img/service_outbound.svg)

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_service) and name=~test --> is(kubernetes_pod)
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7bb6478e, name=test-deployment-bbw7m, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=84ab880b, name=test-deployment-pmgmm, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=a3207ba4, name=test-deployment-vrngg, age=6d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
# highlight-end
```

Getting the list of pods behind a service is also possible when we start from a specific pod. We need to combine two walks: find the pod and walk inbound to the service, then walk outbound from the service to all pods of this service. As you can see, traversals in the graph can be chained together. You can chain as many traversals as you want.

![Pods behind a service starting from pod](./img/pod_treverse_inoutbound.svg)

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name=~bbw7m <-- is(kubernetes_service) --> is(kubernetes_pod)
# highlight-start
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=7bb6478e, name=test-deployment-bbw7m, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=84ab880b, name=test-deployment-pmgmm, age=7d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=a3207ba4, name=test-deployment-vrngg, age=6d19h, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
# highlight-end
```

The result of this search is the same as the previous one since we were starting from the same pod.

## Use the ~~Force~~ Graph, Luke!

[Walking the relationships of a resource graph](../a-walk-in-the-graph/index.mdx) can reveal a lot of useful information.

For example, let's say we want to know the amount of memory and the number of CPU cores available on the node running a specific pod:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name~resotocore <-- is(instance) | list instance_memory, instance_cores
# highlight-next-line
​instance_memory=2, instance_cores=1
```

The above search reveals that the pod runs on a rather weak node with only 2 GB of memory and a single CPU core.

Next, consider a scenario where we may have secrets no longer read by any Kubernetes resource. It is best practice to remove unused secrets, to reduce the risk of unauthorized access to your resources. To accomplish this task, we will filter the search for nodes of a kind `kubernetes_secret` that do not have a relation:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_secret) with(empty, <-- not is(kubernetes_namespace))
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_secret, id=cb3fdf32, name=nginx-letsencrypt-test, age=5mo24d, cloud=k8s, account=dev, region=test
```

The [`with` clause](/docs/reference/search/with-clause) allows us to find resources with specific relationships to other resources. Here, we searched for secrets without incoming relationships to resources aside from the owning namespace.

Finally, we'll find all incoming and outgoing dependencies of pods with name containing "resoto." As seen earlier, there are three such pods in the cluster. We can find the transitive dependencies of these resources using the `<-[0:]->` traversal, which follows both incoming (`<--`) and outgoing (`-->`) dependencies until it reaches either a leaf or the graph root:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and name~resoto <-[0:]->
```

![Resoto Graph](./img/resoto_pods.svg)

The red nodes in the lower right corner of the above graph represent the three pods, and the other nodes depict their transitive dependencies. We can intuit quite a bit of information from this graph:

1. The three pods belong to three different deployments and replica sets.
2. Resoto Core has an attached service.
3. The three pods are running on two nodes.
4. DigitalOcean droplets back the nodes from a DigitalOcean Kubernetes cluster with version 1.23.9.
5. The Kubernetes cluster is running in Frankfurt on the default VPC.

## Counting Resources

Resoto can count resources or properties with the [`count` command](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/count).

The following counts the number of pods in all clusters:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count
# highlight-start
​total matched: 67
​total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

`namespace` is a property of each pod, and we can also count the pods for each namespace:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count namespace
# highlight-start
​test: 3
​resoto: 6
​posthog: 16
​kube-system: 42
​total matched: 67
​total unmatched: 0
# highlight-end
```

The results reveal that there are four namespaces: `test`, `resoto`, `posthog` and `kube-system`. Most of the pods are running in the `kube-system` namespace.

Now, let's try to count the number of pods running on every node. Doing so is a bit more complicated since this information is not a property of the pod. However, we can get the node data by extracting the data from the graph. Resoto provides a special syntax to access the [ancestors and descendants](/docs/reference/search/merging-nodes#ancestors-and-descendants) of a resource:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_node.reported.name
# highlight-start
​dev-7u121: 9
​dev-7u129: 10
​dev-7u12z: 11
​analytics-7u14b: 12
​analytics-7u14r: 12
​analytics-7u14w: 13
# highlight-end
```

The above search result shows that there are two clusters, each with three nodes. The result also includes the number of pods running on each of these nodes.

The same approach can be used for counting the number of pods in each deployment:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | count /ancestors.kubernetes_deployment.reported.name
```

## Aggregation

[`count`](/docs/reference/cli/search-commands/count) is actually an [aggregation](/docs/reference/search/aggregation). Aggregations apply functions like `min`, `max`, `avg`, and `sum` on the a resource's property values.

Here, we combine some of the above searches to count the number of pods in each node, in addition to getting the amount of memory and CPU cores available on each node:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) | aggregate /ancestors.instance.reported.name as node_name: sum(1) as pod_count, min(/ancestors.instance.reported.instance_memory) as memory, min(/ancestors.instnace.reported.instance_cores) as cores
```

The following table shows the results of the aggregation:

| `node_name`       | `pod_count` | `memory` | `cores` |
| ----------------- | ----------- | -------- | ------- |
| `analytics-7u14w` | 13          | 8        | 2       |
| `analytics-7u14r` | 12          | 8        | 2       |
| `analytics-7u14b` | 12          | 8        | 2       |
| `dev-7u12z`       | 11          | 2        | 1       |
| `dev-7u129`       | 10          | 2        | 1       |
| `dev-7u121`       | 9           | 2        | 1       |

While aggregation can be helpful for adhoc queries, we can also turn this data into a time series and watch the values over time. See [Actionable Cloud Infrastructure Metrics](../actionable-cloud-infrastructure-metrics/index.mdx) for more details.

## Heatmaps

[Jupyter](https://jupyter.org) Notebook, a web-based interactive [Python](https://python.org) shell, makes it easy to visualize data. One option available out-of-the-box is heatmaps. Imagine that you have many clusters and want to see where compute instances are running. Heatmaps provide a clear visuzalization of this data:

```python
import plotly.express as px
data = rnb.search("is(instance)")
px.density_heatmap(data, x="account_id", y="instance_cores")
```

![Heatmap](./img/heatmap.png)

The heatmap shows accounts on the x-axis (each Kubernetes cluster is represented as an account) and the number of cores on the y-axis. Each square in the grid is color-coded to reflect the node count. It is clear at first glance that the cluster with ID `142729851518581` uses the most compute instances.

## Alerting

It is easy to integrate Resoto with other systems and services for custom [alerting](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting). Resoto ships with a `discord` custom command to [send notifications to a Discord channel](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting/send-discord-notifications). It is also possible to configure alerts to be sent to other services, such as [Prometheus Alertmanager](/docs/how-to-guides/alerting/send-prometheus-alertmanager-alerts).

One scenario where it is desirable to send alert notifications is when a pod is restarting too often.

To configure alerts for this scenario, we first need to define a search query to find such pods:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>42
# highlight-next-line
​kind=kubernetes_pod, id=3f16abea, name=posthog-worker-mtw8r, restart_count=[1], age=14d2h, cloud=k8s, account=posthog, region=posthog
```

A pod can have several containers, and `restart_count` is property of each container status. Since we do not care _which_ container is restarting too often, we use the wildcard `*` to match all container statuses. The above search found a single pod that meets this criteria.

Now that we've defined the search criteria, all we need to do is pipe the results to the `discord` custom command with the desired message title:

```bash
> search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>42 | discord title="This pod is restarted too often, PTAL!"
# highlight-next-line
​1 requests with status 204 sent.
```

![Discord](./img/discord_notification.png)

However, the above command only executes a single time. We would like for Resoto to constantly monitor for pods that are restarting too often and send a notification whenever such pods are found. To do so, we can create a [job](/docs/concepts/automation#jobs) using the [`job` command](/docs/reference/cli/action-commands/job):

```bash
> jobs add --id pod_restarted_too_often --wait-for-event post_collect 'search is(kubernetes_pod) and pod_status.container_statuses[*].restart_count>0 | discord title="This pod is restarted too often, PTAL!"'
# highlight-next-line
​Job pod_restarted_too_often added.
```

We registered this job with the [`post_collect` event](/docs/reference/events#collect-events), so it will be executed automatically whenever new data has been [collected](/docs/concepts/cloud-data-sync).

## Kubernetes… and More!

Resoto is not only able to collect resource metadata from Kubernetes, but also other cloud providers as well.

Resoto is [open source](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto/blob/main/LICENSE) and free to use, and currently supports [<abbr title="Amazon Web Services">AWS</abbr>](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-aws-resource-data), [Google Cloud](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-google-cloud-resource-data), and [DigitalOcean](/docs/how-to-guides/data-sources/collect-digitalocean-resource-data).

[Install Resoto](/docs/getting-started/install-resoto) today!
