versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/launch-resoto/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: "2. Launch Resoto"
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_label: Launch Resoto
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/configure-resoto/index
---

# Launch Resoto

Resoto allows you to manage and explore your cloud infrastructure via a web or shell interface.

## Resoto UI

Resoto UI is a user-friendly web interface that simplifies managing and exploring your cloud infrastructure.

The steps to launch Resoto UI are dependent on how you installed Resoto.

<Tabs groupId="install-method" querystring>

<TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

1. Log in to the [AWS CloudFormation console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation).

2. Click **Stacks**.

3. Enter `ResotoEKS` into the search box, and click on the **ResotoEKS** stack.

   ![ResotoEKS stack in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-stack.png)

4. Click the **Outputs** tab.

5. Enter `ResotoUI` into the search box. There should be exactly one entry. Copy the value (e.g., `https://a3xxxxxx.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com:8900`).

   :::info

   The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoUI` in **Outputs** is the URL of the Resoto UI.

   :::

6. Open the copied URL in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

7. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   :::

8. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="digitalocean" label="DigitalOcean">

1. Resoto is available via an externally accessible service address. Get the address by executing the following in your terminal:

   ```bash
   export SERVICE_ADDRESS=$(kubectl get --namespace resoto service resoto-resotocore -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
   echo "Visit https://$SERVICE_ADDRESS:8900 to use Resoto."
   ```

2. Copy the URL into your browser to launch Resoto UI.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

3. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   :::

4. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

1. Resoto UI listens on port `8900` by default. You can access it by opening <https://localhost:8900> in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubernetes" label="Kubernetes">

1. Resoto provides a service that exposes Resoto UI on port `8900`. We recommend configuring an [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress) with a valid certificate for UI access, but you can port-forward the service as a temporary solution:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl port-forward services/resoto-resotocore 8900
   ```

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

1. Resoto UI listens on port `8900` by default. You can access it by opening <https://localhost:8900> in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Resoto Shell

Resoto Shell is Resoto's command-line interface.

The steps to launch Resoto Shell depend on how you installed Resoto.

<Tabs groupId="install-method" querystring>

<TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

1. Log in to the [AWS CloudFormation console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation).

2. Click **Stacks**.

3. Enter `ResotoEKS` into the search box, and click on the **ResotoEKS** stack.

   ![ResotoEKS stack in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-stack.png)

4. Click the **Outputs** tab.

5. Enter `ResotoEKSConfigCommand` into the search box. There should be exactly one entry. Copy the value (`aws eks ...`).

   ![ResotoEKS stack outputs in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-output.png)

   :::info

   The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` in **Outputs** is a command to configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

   :::

6. Open a terminal and execute the copied command.

   ![Screenshot of ResotoEKS config command in terminal](./img/k8s-access.png)

7. Execute the following in the terminal to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="digitalocean" label="DigitalOcean">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
kubectl --namespace resoto exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
$ docker exec -it resotoshell resh
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubernetes" label="Kubernetes">

1. Make sure that the deployment is available:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl wait --for=condition=available deployment/resoto-resotocore
   ```

2. Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
$ resh
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

![Screenshot of Resoto Shell](../explore-resoto/shell/img/shell.png)

Commit message:

fix(docs): missing link to user management doc in 3.X

versioned_docs/version-3.X/getting-started/launch-resoto/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: "2. Launch Resoto"
sidebar_position: 2
pagination_label: Launch Resoto
pagination_prev: getting-started/install-resoto/index
pagination_next: getting-started/configure-resoto/index
---

# Launch Resoto

Resoto allows you to manage and explore your cloud infrastructure via a web or shell interface.

## Resoto UI

Resoto UI is a user-friendly web interface that simplifies managing and exploring your cloud infrastructure.

The steps to launch Resoto UI are dependent on how you installed Resoto.

<Tabs groupId="install-method" querystring>

<TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

1. Log in to the [AWS CloudFormation console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation).

2. Click **Stacks**.

3. Enter `ResotoEKS` into the search box, and click on the **ResotoEKS** stack.

   ![ResotoEKS stack in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-stack.png)

4. Click the **Outputs** tab.

5. Enter `ResotoUI` into the search box. There should be exactly one entry. Copy the value (e.g., `https://a3xxxxxx.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com:8900`).

   :::info

   The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoUI` in **Outputs** is the URL of the Resoto UI.

   :::

6. Open the copied URL in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

7. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   See [User Management](../../reference/user-management/index.mdx) for details.

   :::

8. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="digitalocean" label="DigitalOcean">

1. Resoto is available via an externally accessible service address. Get the address by executing the following in your terminal:

   ```bash
   export SERVICE_ADDRESS=$(kubectl get --namespace resoto service resoto-resotocore -o jsonpath="{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}")
   echo "Visit https://$SERVICE_ADDRESS:8900 to use Resoto."
   ```

2. Copy the URL into your browser to launch Resoto UI.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

3. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   See [User Management](../../reference/user-management/index.mdx) for details.

   :::

4. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

1. Resoto UI listens on port `8900` by default. You can access it by opening <https://localhost:8900> in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   See [User Management](../../reference/user-management/index.mdx) for details.

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubernetes" label="Kubernetes">

1. Resoto provides a service that exposes Resoto UI on port `8900`. We recommend configuring an [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress) with a valid certificate for UI access, but you can port-forward the service as a temporary solution:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl port-forward services/resoto-resotocore 8900
   ```

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   See [User Management](../../reference/user-management/index.mdx) for details.

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

1. Resoto UI listens on port `8900` by default. You can access it by opening <https://localhost:8900> in your browser.

   :::note

   The SSL certificate is self-signed, but you can safely ignore any browser warnings.

   :::

2. Log in with your Resoto credentials:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto login form](./img/login-form.png)

   :::note

   If accessing a new Resoto install, you will be prompted to create an administrator account:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto account creation form](./img/create-account.png)

   Additional users can be added via the [CLI](../../reference/cli/index.mdx) using the [`user add` command](../../reference/cli/setup-commands/user/add.mdx).

   See [User Management](../../reference/user-management/index.mdx) for details.

   :::

3. After logging in, Resoto UI will start.

   :::note

   The first time Resoto UI is launched, a setup wizard will appear to help you configure Resoto:

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

   :::

   ![Screenshot of Resoto UI setup wizard](../explore-resoto/ui/img/setup-wizard.png)

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Resoto Shell

Resoto Shell is Resoto's command-line interface.

The steps to launch Resoto Shell depend on how you installed Resoto.

<Tabs groupId="install-method" querystring>

<TabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

1. Log in to the [AWS CloudFormation console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation).

2. Click **Stacks**.

3. Enter `ResotoEKS` into the search box, and click on the **ResotoEKS** stack.

   ![ResotoEKS stack in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-stack.png)

4. Click the **Outputs** tab.

5. Enter `ResotoEKSConfigCommand` into the search box. There should be exactly one entry. Copy the value (`aws eks ...`).

   ![ResotoEKS stack outputs in AWS CloudFormation](./img/cf-output.png)

   :::info

   The value of `ResotoEKS.ResotoEKSConfigCommandXXXX` in **Outputs** is a command to configure `kubectl` to connect to the EKS cluster.

   :::

6. Open a terminal and execute the copied command.

   ![Screenshot of ResotoEKS config command in terminal](./img/k8s-access.png)

7. Execute the following in the terminal to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="digitalocean" label="DigitalOcean">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
kubectl --namespace resoto exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="docker" label="Docker">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
$ docker exec -it resotoshell resh
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="kubernetes" label="Kubernetes">

1. Make sure that the deployment is available:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl wait --for=condition=available deployment/resoto-resotocore
   ```

2. Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

   ```bash
   $ kubectl exec -it service/resoto-resotocore -- resh
   ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="pip" label="pip">

Execute the following to access the [Resoto Shell](../../reference/components/shell.mdx) interface:

```bash
$ resh
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

![Screenshot of Resoto Shell](../explore-resoto/shell/img/shell.png)
