blog/2022/12-21-installing-cloud2sql/index.md, before:

---
authors: [lukas]
tags: [cloud, sql, cloud2sql, postgresql, mysql, snowflake, parquet]
---

# Installing Cloud2SQL

```mdx-code-block
import AsciinemaPlayer from '@site/src/components/AsciinemaPlayer';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
```

Welcome to our tutorial on installing and configuring [Cloud2SQL](/cloud2sql). As mentioned in [my last post](/blog/2022/12/20/integrating-cloud-data-into-existing-sql-workflows-with-cloud2sql), Cloud2SQL is a powerful tool based on [Resoto](/resoto)'s collector plugins, that allows users to collect data from various cloud infrastructure sources and export it directly to a database like [Snowflake](https://snowflake.com), [PostgreSQL](https://postgresql.org), [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org) or [MySQL](https://mysql.com) or write it as [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org), [SQLite](https://sqlite.org) or [<abbr title="comma-separated values">CSV</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) files for ingestion in your data lake.

In this post, we will guide you through the process of installing Cloud2SQL and demonstrate how to export data from AWS to a local SQLite database file.

Whether you are looking to integrate cloud data into your existing SQL workflows or simply want an easy way to access and analyze data from multiple cloud sources, Cloud2SQL is an excellent tool to consider. Let's get started!

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

<!--truncate-->

## Installation

To install Cloud2SQL, all you need is Python 3.9 or newer. Create a new virtual environment and install the `cloud2sql[all]` package:

```bash
$ pip3 install --user cloud2sql[all]
```

:::note

If you only require support for a specific database, you can choose between `cloud2sql[snowflake]`, `cloud2sql[parquet]`, `cloud2sql[postgresql]`, and `cloud2sql[mysql]` instead of installing `cloud2sql[all]`.

:::

:::caution

Snowflake currently only supports Python 3.10. If you are using Python 3.11, use a database-specific package instead of `cloud2sql[all]`.

:::

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql-install.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

## Configuration

**Cloud2SQL supports all sources supported by Resoto.** By default, Cloud2SQL ships with AWS, Google Cloud, DigitalOcean, and Kubernetes source plugins pre-installed.

Let's load some AWS data into a local SQLite database file. For authentication with AWS, we have all options supported by the AWS CLI. You can either export `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, or create a profile in your AWS config file and export `AWS_PROFILE`.

The configuration file is a [YAML](https://yaml.org) file that specifies sources to load data from and destinations to export data to. Create a file `myconfig.yaml`:

```yaml title="myconfig.yaml"
sources:
  aws:
destinations:
  sqlite:
    database: resoto.db
```

This tells Cloud2SQL to load the AWS collector. Within the `aws` section, you can configure additional options, but they are optional.

<details>
<summary>More advanced configuration examples</summary>

<div>
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="aws-snowflake" label="AWS / K8S / Snowflake">

```yaml
sources:
  aws:
    # IAM role name to assume
    role: ResotoAccess
    # List of AWS profiles to collect
    profiles: someengineering-production
    # List of AWS Regions to collect (null for all)
    region:
    - us-east-1
    - us-west-2
    - eu-central-1
    # Scrape the entire AWS organization
    scrape_org: true
    # Assume given role in current account
    assume_current: true
    # Do not scrape current account
    do_not_scrape_current: true
k8s:
    # Configure access to k8s clusters.
    # Structure:
    # - name: 'k8s-cluster-name'
    #   certificate_authority_data: 'CERT'
    #   server: 'https://k8s-cluster-server.example.com'
    #   token: 'TOKEN'
    configs: []
    # Configure access via kubeconfig files.
    # Structure:
    #   - path: "/path/to/kubeconfig"
    #     all_contexts: false
    #     contexts: ["context1", "context2"]
    config_files:
    - path: /path/to/kubeconfig
      all_contexts: true
destinations:
  snowflake:
    host: myorg-myaccount
    user: cloud2sql
    password: changeme
    database: cloud2sql/public
    args:
      warehouse: compute_wh
      role: accountadmin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcp-postgres" label="GCP / PostgreSQL">

```yaml
sources:
  gcp:
    # GCP service account file(s)
    # Empty string to use the default service account e.g.:
    # service_account: [""]
    service_account:
    - /path/to/service-account1.json
    - /path/to/service-account2.json
  destinations:
    posgresql:
      host: 127.0.0.1
      port: 5432
      user: postgres
      password: changeme
      database: cloud2sql
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="do-parquet" label="DigitalOcean / Parquet">

```yaml
sources:
  digitalocean:
    # DigitalOcean API tokens for the teams to be collected
    api_tokens:
    - 'dop_v1_e5c759260e6a43f003f3b53e2cfec79cxxxxxxxxx'
destinations:
  file:
    path: /path/to/parquet/files/
    format: parquet
    batch_size: 100_000
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</div>
</details>

:::info

Please see [`config-template.yaml`](https://github.com/someengineering/cloud2sql/blob/main/config-template.yaml) for a list of all supported configuration options.

:::

:::tip

When collecting multiple accounts, the `role` and `scrape_org` options instruct Cloud2SQL to fetch the list of all organization accounts and specify a role to assume. Alternatively, you can specify the list of accounts to collect using the `profiles` option if those profiles have been defined in your [AWS CLI config file](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/guide/credentials.html).

The option `account_pool_size` controls the number of accounts that are being collected in parallel. Increasing the value uses more CPU cores and memory but also makes the collection of multiple accounts finish faster.

:::

## Resource Collection

Now, run Cloud2SQL:

```bash
$ cloud2sql --config myconfig.yml
```

And that's it! After a couple of minutes, when the collection is done, you will have a copy of your cloud infrastructure in `resoto.db`.

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql-cfg_and_run.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

## Exploration

Open the SQLite database we just created:

```bash
$ sqlite3 resoto.db
```

:::tip

If the `sqlite3` command is not already installed on your machine, the package name in most Linux distributions as well as homebrew (MacOS) and Chocolatey (Windows) is `sqlite` or `sqlite3`.

:::

The `.tables` command lists all the tables that were created during Cloud2SQL's collect run.

The `.schema` command outputs a table's fields.

For instance, if you have IAM server certificates, we can inspect the schema of the `aws_iam_server_certificate` table:

```sql
> .schema aws_iam_server_certificate
# highlight-start
​CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "aws_iam_server_certificate" (
​	_id VARCHAR NOT NULL,
​	arn VARCHAR,
​	path VARCHAR,
​	id VARCHAR,
​	tags JSON,
​	name VARCHAR,
​	ctime VARCHAR,
​	mtime VARCHAR,
​	atime VARCHAR,
​	expires VARCHAR,
​	dns_names JSON,
​	sha1_fingerprint VARCHAR,
​	cloud VARCHAR,
​	account VARCHAR,
​	region VARCHAR,
​	zone VARCHAR,
​	PRIMARY KEY (_id)
​);
# highlight-end
```

We could then find all certificates expiring in the next thirty days:

```sql
> SELECT name, expires, account from aws_iam_server_certificate WHERE datetime(expires) BETWEEN datetime('now') AND datetime('now', 'start of day', '+30 day');
# highlight-start
​test-cert-2020-09-27T21-29-09-12586-07-00|2023-01-01T04:29:09Z|someengineering
# highlight-end
```

See [Resource Data Models](/docs/reference/data-models) for a full list of currently supported resources.

## Conclusion

Now that you have a good understanding of how to install and configure [Cloud2SQL](/cloud2sql), why not give it a try and see how it can help you streamline your cloud data management and analysis processes?

Simply follow the steps above to get started, and feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/someengineering) if you have any questions or encounter any issues along the way. We're always happy to help!

Commit message:

fix(blog): a few more edits

blog/2022/12-21-installing-cloud2sql/index.md, after:

---
authors: [lukas]
tags: [cloud, sql, cloud2sql, postgresql, mysql, snowflake, parquet]
---

# Installing Cloud2SQL

```mdx-code-block
import AsciinemaPlayer from '@site/src/components/AsciinemaPlayer';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
```

[Cloud2SQL](/cloud2sql) is a tool based on [Resoto](/resoto)'s collector plugins that allows you to collect data from various cloud infrastructure sources and export it to a database (like [Snowflake](https://snowflake.com), [PostgreSQL](https://postgresql.org), [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org), or [MySQL](https://mysql.com)) or write it as [Parquet](https://parquet.apache.org), [SQLite](https://sqlite.org), or [<abbr title="comma-separated values">CSV</abbr>](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) files for ingestion in your data lake.

**In this post, I will guide you through the process of installing Cloud2SQL and demonstrate how to export data from AWS to a local SQLite database file.**

Whether you are looking to integrate cloud data into your existing SQL workflows or simply want an easy way to access and analyze data from multiple cloud sources, Cloud2SQL is an excellent tool to consider.

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

<!--truncate-->

## Installation

To install Cloud2SQL, all you need is Python 3.9 or newer. Create a new virtual environment and install the `cloud2sql[all]` package:

```bash
$ pip3 install --user cloud2sql[all]
```

:::note

If you only require support for a specific database, you can choose between `cloud2sql[snowflake]`, `cloud2sql[parquet]`, `cloud2sql[postgresql]`, and `cloud2sql[mysql]` instead of installing `cloud2sql[all]`.

:::

:::caution

Snowflake currently only supports Python 3.10. If you are using Python 3.11, use a database-specific package instead of `cloud2sql[all]`.

:::

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql-install.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

## Configuration

**Cloud2SQL supports all sources supported by Resoto.** By default, Cloud2SQL ships with AWS, Google Cloud, DigitalOcean, and Kubernetes source plugins pre-installed.

Let's load some AWS data into a local SQLite database file. For authentication with AWS, we have all options supported by the AWS CLI. You can either export `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, or create a profile in your AWS config file and export `AWS_PROFILE`.

The configuration file is a [YAML](https://yaml.org) file that specifies sources to load data from and destinations to export data to. Create a file `myconfig.yaml`:

```yaml title="myconfig.yaml"
sources:
  aws:
destinations:
  sqlite:
    database: resoto.db
```

This tells Cloud2SQL to load the AWS collector. Within the `aws` section, you can configure additional options, but they are optional.

<details>
<summary>Advanced configuration examples</summary>
<div>

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="aws-snowflake" label="AWS / K8S / Snowflake">

```yaml
sources:
  aws:
    # IAM role name to assume
    role: ResotoAccess
    # List of AWS profiles to collect
    profiles: someengineering-production
    # List of AWS Regions to collect (null for all)
    region:
    - us-east-1
    - us-west-2
    - eu-central-1
    # Scrape the entire AWS organization
    scrape_org: true
    # Assume given role in current account
    assume_current: true
    # Do not scrape current account
    do_not_scrape_current: true
k8s:
    # Configure access to k8s clusters.
    # Structure:
    # - name: 'k8s-cluster-name'
    #   certificate_authority_data: 'CERT'
    #   server: 'https://k8s-cluster-server.example.com'
    #   token: 'TOKEN'
    configs: []
    # Configure access via kubeconfig files.
    # Structure:
    #   - path: "/path/to/kubeconfig"
    #     all_contexts: false
    #     contexts: ["context1", "context2"]
    config_files:
    - path: /path/to/kubeconfig
      all_contexts: true
destinations:
  snowflake:
    host: myorg-myaccount
    user: cloud2sql
    password: changeme
    database: cloud2sql/public
    args:
      warehouse: compute_wh
      role: accountadmin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="gcp-postgres" label="GCP / PostgreSQL">

```yaml
sources:
  gcp:
    # GCP service account file(s)
    # Empty string to use the default service account e.g.:
    # service_account: [""]
    service_account:
    - /path/to/service-account1.json
    - /path/to/service-account2.json
  destinations:
    posgresql:
      host: 127.0.0.1
      port: 5432
      user: postgres
      password: changeme
      database: cloud2sql
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="do-parquet" label="DigitalOcean / Parquet">

```yaml
sources:
  digitalocean:
    # DigitalOcean API tokens for the teams to be collected
    api_tokens:
    - 'dop_v1_e5c759260e6a43f003f3b53e2cfec79cxxxxxxxxx'
destinations:
  file:
    path: /path/to/parquet/files/
    format: parquet
    batch_size: 100_000
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</div>
</details>

See [`config-template.yaml`](https://github.com/someengineering/cloud2sql/blob/main/config-template.yaml) for a list of all supported configuration options.

:::tip

When collecting multiple accounts, the `role` and `scrape_org` options instruct Cloud2SQL to fetch the list of all organization accounts and specify a role to assume. Alternatively, you can specify the list of accounts to collect using the `profiles` option if those profiles have been defined in your [AWS CLI config file](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/guide/credentials.html).

The option `account_pool_size` controls the number of accounts that are being collected in parallel. Increasing the value uses more CPU cores and memory but also makes the collection of multiple accounts finish faster.

:::

## Resource Collection

Running Cloud2SQL is as simple as executing the following command:

```bash
$ cloud2sql --config myconfig.yml
```

And that's it! After a couple of minutes, when the collection is done, you will have a copy of your cloud infrastructure in `resoto.db`.

<p><AsciinemaPlayer src="/asciinema/cloud2sql-cfg_and_run.cast" cols={80} rows={20} preload={true} autoPlay={true} loop={true} /></p>

## Exploration

Let's take a look at the exported data! Open the SQLite database:

```bash
$ sqlite3 resoto.db
```

:::tip

If the `sqlite3` command is not already installed on your machine, the package name in most Linux distributions as well as homebrew (MacOS) and Chocolatey (Windows) is `sqlite` or `sqlite3`.

:::

The `.tables` command lists all the tables that were created during Cloud2SQL's collect run, while the `.schema` command outputs a table's fields.

For instance, if you have IAM server certificates, we can inspect the schema of the `aws_iam_server_certificate` table:

```sql
> .schema aws_iam_server_certificate
# highlight-start
​CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS "aws_iam_server_certificate" (
​	_id VARCHAR NOT NULL,
​	arn VARCHAR,
​	path VARCHAR,
​	id VARCHAR,
​	tags JSON,
​	name VARCHAR,
​	ctime VARCHAR,
​	mtime VARCHAR,
​	atime VARCHAR,
​	expires VARCHAR,
​	dns_names JSON,
​	sha1_fingerprint VARCHAR,
​	cloud VARCHAR,
​	account VARCHAR,
​	region VARCHAR,
​	zone VARCHAR,
​	PRIMARY KEY (_id)
​);
# highlight-end
```

We could then find all certificates expiring in the next thirty days:

```sql
> SELECT name, expires, account from aws_iam_server_certificate WHERE datetime(expires) BETWEEN datetime('now') AND datetime('now', 'start of day', '+30 day');
# highlight-start
​test-cert-2020-09-27T21-29-09-12586-07-00|2023-01-01T04:29:09Z|someengineering
# highlight-end
```

See [Resource Data Models](/docs/reference/data-models) for a full list of currently supported resources.

## Conclusion

Now that you have a good understanding of how to install and configure [Cloud2SQL](/cloud2sql), why not give it a try and see how it can help you streamline your cloud data management and analysis processes?

Simply follow the steps above to get started, and feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/someengineering) if you have any questions or encounter any issues along the way. We're always happy to help!
