docs/getting-started/explore-resoto/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: "4. Explore Resoto"
sidebar_position: 4
pagination_prev: getting-started/configure-resoto/index
pagination_next: how-to-guides/index
---

# Explore Resoto

```mdx-code-block
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
```

Resoto allows you to manage and explore your cloud infrastructure via a web or shell interface.

<DocCardList />

## Next Steps

Not sure what to do next? Here are some suggestions:

- **[How-To Guides](../../how-to-guides/index.md)** provide step-by-step instructions for performing various tasks within Resoto, such as [search](../../how-to-guides/search/index.md), [cleanup](../../how-to-guides/cleanup/index.md), [alerting](../../how-to-guides/alerting/index.md), and [data export](../../how-to-guides/data-export/index.md).
- **[Concepts](../../concepts/index.md)** describe key topics and ideas, and provide an overview of how Resoto works.

If you want to stay up to date with the latest Resoto news:

- Watch the [`someengineering/resoto` GitHub repository](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto) and be the first to know about new features and releases.
- You can get help with Resoto and connect with a growing community of cloud engineers in the [Some Engineering Discord server](https://discord.gg/someengineering).
- Follow [Some Engineering on LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/someengineering) for updates, insights, podcast episodes, sneak peeks, and more!

Commit message:

refactor: move blog & podcast from some.engineering

docs/getting-started/explore-resoto/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: "4. Explore Resoto"
sidebar_position: 4
pagination_prev: getting-started/configure-resoto/index
pagination_next: how-to-guides/index
---

# Explore Resoto

```mdx-code-block
import DocCardList from '@theme/DocCardList';
import IconExternalLink from '@theme/Icon/ExternalLink';
```

Resoto allows you to manage and explore your cloud infrastructure via a web or shell interface.

<DocCardList />

## Next Steps

Not sure what to do next? Here are some suggestions:

- **[How-To Guides](../../how-to-guides/index.md)** provide step-by-step instructions for performing various tasks within Resoto, such as [search](../../how-to-guides/search/index.md), [cleanup](../../how-to-guides/cleanup/index.md), [alerting](../../how-to-guides/alerting/index.md), and [data export](../../how-to-guides/data-export/index.md).
- **[Concepts](../../concepts/index.md)** describe key topics and ideas, and provide an overview of how Resoto works.

If you want to stay up to date with the latest Resoto news:

- Watch the [`someengineering/resoto` GitHub repository <span class="badge badge--secondary" aria-hidden="true">github.com <IconExternalLink width="10" height="10" /></span>](https://github.com/someengineering/resoto) and be the first to know about new features and releases.
- You can get help with Resoto and connect with a growing community of cloud engineers in the [Some Engineering Discord server](https://discord.gg/someengineering).
- Follow [Some Engineering on LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/company/someengineering) for updates, insights, podcast episodes, sneak peeks, and more!
