docs/reference/cli/clean.md, before:

# `clean`

The `clean` command marks resources for cleaning by adding `desired.clean = true` to the resources.

The `clean` command expects query results (objects) or an array of object IDs to be piped as input.

Optionally, you can provide a reason for marking the matched resources to be pruned during the next cleanup run. The reason is logged and can be useful in reviewing why a particular resource was deleted.

## Usage

```bash
clean <reason>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description                      | Required? | Default Value |
| --------- | -------------------------------- | --------- | ------------- |
| `reason`  | Reason for marking to be cleaned | ❌        | N/A           |

## Examples

```bash title="Mark volumes that have not been accessed in the last month for cleanup, and list the ID and desired section for each"
> search is(volume) and last_access>1month | clean "Volume not accessed for longer than 1 month" | list id, /desired
// highlight-next-line
id=vol-123, clean=true
```

```bash title="Manually mark specific resources for cleanup"
> json ["vol-123"] | clean | list id, /desired
// highlight-next-line
id=vol-123, clean=true
```

```bash title="Mark all unused EBS volume older than 30 days that had no I/O during the past 7 days for cleaning"
> search is(volume) and ctime < -30d and atime < -7d and mtime < -7d and volume_status = available | clean "older than 30d with more then 7d of not beeing used"
```

Commit message:

feat(reference): Update current CLI command reference (#104)

docs/reference/cli/clean.md, after:

# `clean`

The `clean` command marks resources for cleaning by setting `desired.clean=true` to the resources.
Resources marked as such will be removed during the next cleanup step of the `collect_and_cleanup` workflow. 
See [concept of workflows](/docs/concepts/automation/workflow) for reference. 

Note: it is also possible to mark resources as protected, so they will never be cleaned up.
See [protect](./protect.md) for more information.

The `clean` command expects query results (objects) or an array of object IDs to be piped as input.
Optionally, you can provide a reason for marking the matched resources to be pruned during the next cleanup run. The reason is logged and can be useful in reviewing why a particular resource was deleted.

## Usage

```bash
clean <reason>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description                      | Required? | Default Value |
| --------- | -------------------------------- | --------- | ------------- |
| `reason`  | Reason for marking to be cleaned | ❌        | N/A           |

## Examples

```bash title="Mark volumes that have not been accessed in the last month for cleanup, and list the ID and desired section for each"
> search is(volume) and last_access>1month | clean "Volume not accessed for longer than 1 month" | list id, /desired
// highlight-next-line
id=vol-123, clean=true
```

```bash title="Manually mark specific resources for cleanup"
> json ["vol-123"] | clean | list id, /desired
// highlight-next-line
id=vol-123, clean=true
```

```bash title="Mark all unused EBS volume older than 30 days that had no I/O during the past 7 days for cleaning"
> search is(volume) and ctime < -30d and atime < -7d and mtime < -7d and volume_status = available | clean "older than 30d with more then 7d of not beeing used"
```
