docs/reference/cli/descendants.md, before:

# `descendants`

The `descendants` command selects all descendants of nodes returned in a query.

## Usage

```bash
descendants [--with-origin] <edge_type>
```

### Options

| Option          | Description                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `--with-origin` | Includes the current element in the result set. |

### Parameters

| Parameter   | Description                    | Required? | Default Value |
| ----------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | ------------- |
| `edge_type` | Edge type by which to traverse | ❌        | `delete`      |

## Examples

```bash title="Equivalent to query is(aws_region) -[1:]->"
> query is(aws_region) | descendants
```

```bash title="Equivalent to query is(aws_region) -[0:]->"
> query is(aws_region) | descendants --with-origin
```

```bash
> query is(volume_type) limit 1 | descendants --with-origin
// highlight-start
kind=gcp_disk_type, name=pd-standard, age=52yr1mo, cloud=gcp, account=sre, region=us-central1, zone=us-central1-a
kind=gcp_disk, id=881, name=disk-1, age=1yr2mo, cloud=gcp, account=sre, region=us-central1, zone=us-central1-a
// highlight-end
```

## See Also

- [`ancestors`](./ancestors.md)
- [`predecessors`](./predecessors.md)
- [`successors`](./successors.md)

Commit message:

fix(docs): various edits & split of basic search syntax into two pages

docs/reference/cli/descendants.md, after:

# `descendants`

The `descendants` command selects all descendants of nodes returned in a query.

Please refer to the [concept guide](../../concepts/search/traversals.md#by-depth) for a detailed explanation of search traversals.

## Usage

```bash
descendants [--with-origin] <edge_type>
```

### Options

| Option          | Description                                     |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `--with-origin` | Includes the current element in the result set. |

### Parameters

| Parameter   | Description                    | Required? | Default Value |
| ----------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | ------------- |
| `edge_type` | Edge type by which to traverse | ❌        | `delete`      |

## Examples

```bash title="Equivalent to query is(aws_region) -[1:]->"
> query is(aws_region) | descendants
```

```bash title="Equivalent to query is(aws_region) -[0:]->"
> query is(aws_region) | descendants --with-origin
```

```bash
> query is(volume_type) limit 1 | descendants --with-origin
// highlight-start
kind=gcp_disk_type, name=pd-standard, age=52yr1mo, cloud=gcp, account=sre, region=us-central1, zone=us-central1-a
kind=gcp_disk, id=881, name=disk-1, age=1yr2mo, cloud=gcp, account=sre, region=us-central1, zone=us-central1-a
// highlight-end
```

## See Also

- [`ancestors`](./ancestors.md)
- [`predecessors`](./predecessors.md)
- [`successors`](./successors.md)
